<div><p>NOTE:  This is a work in progress.  I'd welcome any and all comments (besides telling me that it's too long -- I already know that).  I'm not completely happy with the analysis yet, but I'm not sure why.</p>

<p>Why hasn’t there been an African-American candidate in either slot of a major party’s presidential ticket?  There may not be any single reason.  Instead, a whole host of factors play into the equation, including a large dollop of pragmatic party politics, a heaping spoonful of legislative branch/executive branch electoral dissonance, and a disturbingly big pinch of residual racism.  I won’t pretend to understand all of the factors involved in this phenomenon, but I do have a few observations on this score [note: the idea for this essay and the seeds for a couple of my observations came from a thread on a college sports message board I frequent.  You know who you are, guys.  Thanks, and hopefully I’m not plagiarizing anyone].</p>

<p>We should start with an understanding of what it takes to win a place on a major party ticket.  Obviously, winning the nomination for President is a bit different from being selected as the vice-presidential candidate.  Let’s look at each in turn.  </p>

<p>The presidential nomination calculus is considerably more complex than the vice-presidential calculus.  And there are in fact a number of different paths most candidates can take in trying to position themselves for the primaries (although some of these paths may not be functionally available to African-American candidates – more on that in a minute).  The most time-honored paths to the presidential nomination tend to have at least one of two stops: U.S. Senator or state governor.  Since 1972, every Democratic and Republican presidential nominee served as a U.S. Senator, a state governor, or Vice-President before winning his party’s nomination:  Nixon (Senator, CA); McGovern (Senator, SD); Carter (Governor, GA); Ford (VP); Reagan (Governor, CA); Mondale (Senator, MN); Bush I (VP); Clinton (Governor, AR); Dole (Senator, KS); Gore (Senator, TN); Bush II (governor, Texas).  This essay will not address the “heir apparent” path to the presidential nomination, because it is unfortunately irrelevant to the primary topic.  No African-American has been elected VP, and there’s little value in discussing this approach to the presidency until that happens.  </p>

<p>Although it is certainly possible to make the big time without a stop in the governor’s mansion or on the Senate floor, those who manage to do so are the exception rather than the rule.  In fact, of the current crop of Democratic presidential hopefuls, all four of the front-runners have served as Senators, governors, or both.  But being a Senator or a state governor is more than just a de facto resume requirement.  Instead, these positions offer uniquely powerful platforms from which to launch a presidential campaign.  Although some of the power in these positions stems from increased national name recognition (especially in the case of Senators), their real value lies in the increased visibility they provide for the would-be President to the movers and shakers within each party.  In other words, party “talent scouts” tend to focus on the Senate and the statehouses when trying to identify their “rising stars.”  There are a number of reasons for this.  First, the stages are bigger and the stakes are higher than for other elected offices (including the House of Representatives).  Senators have the opportunity to act on a largely national stage (something most Representatives of suitable nominating age do not).  State governors have a smaller stage, but they function as “mini-Presidents,” and in most states, they have the opportunity to show their Presidential stuff.</p>

<p>Also, both governors and Senators can gain prominence without sacrificing their reputation as “statesmen.” (Please, no gender comments.  It’s just a lot easier than typing “he/she” and coming up with bizarre ways to avoid gender-specific common usages).  Neither governors nor senators are often forced to sacrifice their perceived dignity for attention.  Not so in the House of Representatives (which likely will remain the only other viable launching pad for Presidential aspirations).  The short electoral cycle and the far more partisan atmosphere in the House make it much more difficult for Representatives to get noticed without damaging their “statesman” credentials.  Many “power positions” in the House are held by Representatives too old or too partisan to be considered seriously for a presidential bid.  Speaker of the House, minority leader, whip.  All of these positions are typically filled by someone with an impressive combination of experience and partisan credentials.  It’s hard to jump to the presidential nomination if you’re too old, or have too much partisan baggage trailing behind you.  For those Representatives young enough to run for President, a stop in the Senate or the statehouse is often necessary to restore the statesman’s aura.  There are other reasons that Representatives have trouble winning their party’s biggest prize, but we’ll save additional discussion for the section on electoral dissonance.</p>

<p>Regardless of a potential candidates prior elected offices, it’s also clear that he also needs at least some name recognition.  But candidates mostly need to be recognized by their party bosses.  In fact, recognition by the American public at large is of marginal value, and may even hurt in some cases.  How much of Gephardt’s early withdrawal in 2004 is a function of the general perception that he’s been running for President continuously since 1843?  On the other hand, how many Americans can name more than a dozen Senators, or more than two governors that are not currently running for President?  How many primary-voting Democrats had heard of Bill Clinton before he threw his hat in the ring?  What about Jimmy Carter, or even Howard Dean?  (I know there are exceptions to this general rule.  Please don’t waste bandwidth pointing them out.  That pretty much goes for any generalization I make, by the way.  If, on the other hand, you have additional thoughts on the prerequisites for a presidential nominee, fire away)</p>

<p>In short, eventual party nominees for President need to prove that they are presidential material to one of the several competing subsets of those in power within the party.</p>

<p>The vice-presidential nomination is a bit easier, at least in theory:  the party and/or the presidential nominee selects the individual that he thinks will most increase the ticket’s chances in the general election.  As a practical matter, this means that the party nominates a VP candidate based upon either his “complementary” characteristics, his prominence and power within the party, or both.  If the primaries are close, a presidential nominee may select one of his more powerful primary opponents.  But considerations of “balance” often dominate this decision.  VP candidates are often expected to balance political weaknesses (lack of federal government/foreign affairs expertise, for example) or to offer geographic, religious, ideological, or demeanor balance.  In some ways, the vice-presidential nomination is therefore both more and less meritocratic:  there are no specific prerequisites for the job, but extraordinary ability is simply less important than having the right balancing characteristics.</p>

<p>With all that in mind, why no African-American nominees for either office?  </p>

<p>Some of it may be dumb luck.  A lot of cards have to fall the right way for even the most talented politician to get a legitimate shot at the presidency.  There are fewer black politicians than white, so as a class, they may have been unlucky (although it sounds crass to put it this way, Martin Luther King, Jr. was probably the victim of this sort of “bad luck” (1) in being born when he was; and (2) in being assassinated before he had the opportunity to join the political mainstream.  Alternative history is tricky, but it’s not hard to imagine MLK as a national candidate for office in the 1980s or 90s, had he survived.)</p>

<p>But there are other reasons as well.  First and foremost among them, pragmatic politics.  As a general rule, African-Americans tend to associate strongly with the Democratic Party.  We can discuss some other time whether that association continues to be in African Americans’ self-interest, though I’m not sure it is.  Regardless, it’s a fact, and only in the last several years has the Republican Party enjoyed even limited success in elevating the profiles of its few black leaders (Watts, Rice, Powell).</p>

<p>What does this mean?  Well, it generally means that the Democrats have very little incentive to nominate an African-American candidate for national office.  They continue to enjoy a near-lock on the black vote, and residual racism among the national electorate (no, it’s not just the South’s problem) suggests that the Dems would lose more than they would gain from such a nomination.  In other words, it may well be that only the Republicans can nominate an African-American, much as “only Nixon could go to China.”  I certainly can imagine circumstances in which the Democratic Party might nominate a black candidate, but as a matter of pragmatic electoral politics, the incentive just isn’t there.  Such a strategy would likely lose votes from the silent racists within the Democratic Party without an offsetting bump from independents or Republicans crossing over (no party has a monopoly on silent racism).  For those of you who remember Douglas Wilder’s gubernatorial victory in Virginia a little more than a decade ago, you might also remember the significant differences between his poll numbers and his actual percentage of the vote.).  Regardless of our political affiliations, we should hope for a world where the incentives no longer set up this way.  But it’s still a reality in 2004.</p>

<p>So, Democrats don’t currently have an incentive to nominate an African-American candidate.  How can that be overcome?  Although a Republican Party nomination is likely (I predict one within the decade), I think there are significant hurdles to the Democratic Party’s nomination of an African-American for either office (absent a Mondale/Ferraro-style “token nomination” in a race where the Democratic nominee is perceived as having little chance of victory at the time the running mate decision is made).</p>

<p>Most of it comes down to three somewhat circular phenomena:  (1) the dramatic, consensual, and bipartisan gerrymandering of congressional districts; (2) the tendency among African-American politicians within these districts to self-identify as “single-issue” or “black” politicians; and (3) the concomitant difficulties African-Americans face in gaining access to Senate and gubernatorial seats with their broad leadership credentials intact.  In fact, absent a “token” nomination, I think that only a transcendent black leader along the lines of a Harold Ford Jr. (assuming he matures like everyone expects) has a real shot unless the status quo changes significantly.  But it’s not so easy to say whether the status quo <i>should</i> be changed in the ways necessary to increase the viability of African American presidential candidates.</p>

<p>Fewer than 10% of the seats in the House of Representatives are truly “contested” between Democrats and Republicans.  The vast majority of our 400+ congressional districts are “safe” districts, drawn up with the express intention of virtually guaranteeing single-party control of the district.  And many of these districts tend to concentrate ethnic/racial minorities (“majority-minority districts”). Notwithstanding a few recent high-profile redistricting fights (Texas and North Carolina for example), this gerrymandering is more or less a consensual, bipartisan exercise, for one simple reason: Every representative would like to live in a “safe” district. </p>

<p>Many of us have a knee-jerk reaction against gerrymandering, so it’s worthwhile to at least consider whether gerrymandering, and the electoral dissonance it engenders, is always a bad thing.  Depending on your base assumptions, I’m not sure it is.</p>

<p>Regardless, coupled with the substantial benefits House seniority confers upon a Representative’s constituents, gerrymandering ultimately results in deeply entrenched incumbents whose sole focus is on addressing their typically relatively homogeneous constituency’s needs.  In the context of African-American politics specifically, there is substantial electoral dissonance between what’s best for -African-American Congressmen and what’s best for African-Americans’ presidential aspirations.  </p>

<p>Majority-minority districts are really a two-edged sword for minority ethnic/racial groups, and it’s hard to figure out whether the costs outweigh the benefits.  On one hand, there is little question that majority-minority districts typically elect minority Representatives to Congress.  To the extent the minority group <i>as a minority group</i> has unique or special interests, gerrymandered districts are typically going to result in those interests receiving greater attention in Congress.  If congressional districts were drawn without regard to population demographics, it is likely that many minority groups would lose all voice in Congress, because even a unified minority vote would not be sufficient to turn an election in a majority-white or mixed ethnicity district.  I tend to think that minority groups have fewer and fewer unique interests in American politics, but I don’t think that’s always been the case.</p>

<p>On the negative side of the equation, majority-minority districts tend to produce single-issue Representatives.  This has several undesirable effects, but it primarily tends to limit the career aspirations of minority politicians from those districts.  It is not coincidence that the four most prominent black political figures of this generation, Jackson, Powell, Rice, and Sharpton, have not served in the House of Representatives (Jackson’s DC “office” doesn’t count).  To some extent, minority representatives are forced to spend disproportionate time and political capital addressing the idiosyncratic needs or desires of their constituencies.  Those voters are far more likely to retain a Representative they see as responsive to their unique desires than one with more centrist and universally appealing positions. Representatives who can manage to serve both masters are few and far between. </p>

<p>Gerrymandering tends, therefore, to prevent viable African-American candidates from rising to the prominence necessary to launch a viable presidential bid.  African-American representatives who attract national attention tend to do so more often through strident race-focused politics; those whose inclination is toward a more inclusive polity may well be punished by the voters in a subsequent election (which will come all too soon in the House).  It’s not impossible for an African-American leader to transcend the limitations imposed by gerrymandering (Harold Ford Jr. may someday accomplish this Sisyphean task), but it’s not easy, either.  As hard as it is for an African-American to get elected to Congress in a majority-white district, it’s nearly as difficult for an African-American Representative to become a Senator or Governor in any state with a legitimate chance at producing a future President, because it’s just plain hard to come out of a majority-minority district with broad leadership credentials intact.  So far, there have been only three elected African-Americans to serve as Senators or governors.  </p>

<p>As a practical matter, it’s also hard to decide whether eliminating gerrymandering<br />
 would be in the short- or middle-term interests of the African-American community (accepting for the sake of argument that the African-American community has a unique set of interests – a debatable point in the long term, but a reasonable position in the short- and middle-term).  If congressional districts were drawn completely geographically, there would continue to be some majority African-American districts, primarily in large cities and in parts of the rural South.  But a huge percentage of the black population would effectively be disenfranchised (again, assuming they have legitimate, monolithic political interests) because they would exist primarily as a small minority within majority-white districts.  It is possible that elimination of gerrymandering would ultimately result in far more balanced representation benefiting all citizens.  But in the short and middle-term, the perceived detriment to the African-American community in terms of their loss of representation in Congress is unlikely to be outweighed by the fact that a geographically rational districting approach is much more likely to produce national-caliber African-American leaders.</p>

<p>Since Reconstruction ended, there have been exactly two African-American U.S. Senators -- Edward Brooke (D-MA 1967-1979) and Carol Moseley-Braun D-IL 1993-99).  As far as I can tell, there has been but one elected African-American governor, Doug Wilder (D-VA, 1990-94).  Until this changes, we are unlikely to see a African-American Democratic nominee for President or Vice-President.  It is far more likely that the Republican party will nominate an African-American Vice-Presidential candidate within the next three Presidential election cycles.  Somewhat ironically, the best chance for an African-American President may lie with the Republican Party, and with continued Republican success in Presidential elections.</p>

<p>One more thing bears mentioning:  I have intentionally left out any discussion of the effects that the challenges facing the African-American community in general have had on the production of suitable leaders.  I have not really figured out what I think about this.  I’m generally sympathetic to the idea that the large chunks of the African-American community suffer unfairly with respect to the quality of public education, public safety, and certain other things.  These deficiencies erect additional hurdles facing the talent pool from which an African-American President is likely to come.  I also think that “victim politics” tends to elevate a certain type of leader from within a community that perceives itself as “victimized.”  That type of leader is unlikely to become President, regardless of the sincerity of his convictions.  It’s sort of a chicken and egg problem, but there can be little doubt that improving the quality of opportunity for African-Americans throughout the country will encourage the development of African-American leaders.  I’m just not sure how to fix that particular problem.  We can discuss affirmative action some other day.<br />
</p></div>