<div><p>Something remarkable occurred in Connecticut Tuesday. A three term Senator fell in the Democratic primary to a figure who was virtually unknown at the beginning of the year. Ned Lamont outlasted Joe Lieberman in the primary vote by a 52 to 48 percent margin. While Lieberman in the final days of the campaign strenuously tried to disavow his tendency to side with the Bush administration, the voters weren't buying it. What drove Connecticut Democrats to vote against Lieberman was not that he demonstrated an independent streak, but that he had become every Republican's favorite Democrat giving legitimacy to appalling policies.   Clearly, the Connecticut primary results show the country is in a much different place than it was four years ago when affinity to the Bush administration was a political asset instead of being downright toxic.  Lieberman has been one of the most vocal and visibly enthusiastic supporters of the Iraq invasion and the occupation, which left him vulnerable to an insurgent candidacy advocating an end to the presence of American troops on Iraqi soil.  Lieberman was out of step with the sentiments of many Connecticut Democrats who despise Bush, are no fans of the Iraq invasion, and loathe the current Conservative agenda.  For this apparently unpardonable transgression, Democrats in Connecticut gave Joe the old heave-ho. 
</p>

<p>  It really is quite the spectacle watching a seasoned three term politician surrender a huge lead and end up losing to a political neophyte.  No one could have envisioned this at the beginning of the year, but the anti-war fervor among Democratic activists which has percolated under the radar screen for quite some time finally rose up from obscurity and became the driving force in toppling the most prominent Democratic cheerleader for the Iraq War and occupation.   Mr. Lieberman is now planning an independent run in November to keep his Senate seat, so it may be a bit premature to write his obituary.  Nevertheless, his precipitous fall is one of the top political stories of the year.   </p>

<p> What does this tell us about 2008?  Everyone has jumped on the bandwagon proclaiming Hillary Clinton as the presumptive front runner for the top office in the land.  What she has is unparalleled name recognition, which is certainly important.  The Clinton name grants Hillary instant gravitas.  But, she has a fatal flaw which may derail any Presidential ambitions she might have.  Possibly to appear tough, Hillary has been a proponent of the Iraq War and the ensuing occupation.  This isn't to say she hasn't accused the Bush administration of incompetently managing the occupation, but that is very different than saying she hasn't favored the war.  It remains to be seen whether Democrats will line up and support a hawkish Democrat for President, but the recent Connecticut primary suggests Senator Clinton may not have the nomination sewn up after all.  To me, Hillary Clinton's reluctance to articulate a clear position on the war should disqualify her from being a serious contender in the Presidential race.
Regarding the issue that is rated most important by many Americans, she has been evasive and equivocal which suggests she isn't Presidential material.  Democrats should back someone who aligns with their core beliefs, and in selecting Hillary they'd be making a loud statement that winning is more important than ending the war and finally bringing the troops home. </p>      </div>