<div>By now, everybody in America knows about the Joe Lieberman/Ned Lamont primary battle. It would be almost impossible not to know about it; the media has been hyping that one, tiny primary in one, tiny state as a national referendum on Bush war policy for months. The outcome of that primary was the lead story in most major media outlets nationwide. In the aftermath of the primary, the media has continued their wall-to-wall coverage of this tiny primary election by doing post-mortem analysis on Lieberman's political future, the effect of this tiny primary election (less than 300,000 total voters, all of whom are Democrat and who don't like Bush) on GOP chances in November, and predictions for Lieberman/Lamont II. I think it's safe to say that, by now,  everybody in America has heard of Ned Lamont.<br />Raise your hand if you have ever heard of Jonathan Tasini?......I don't see any hands out there. Don't tell me that all of you have missed the wall-to-wall media coverage of Jonathan Tasini! Well, the term "wall-to-wall media coverage" might be a little bit of an exaggeration. Actually, there has been ZERO media coverage of Jonathan Tasini. Mr. Tasini happens to be the far-far left senatorial candidate running against Hillary Clinton in the New York Democrat Primary, coming up on Sept. 12. He has the public endorsements of Medea Benjamin of Code Pink, actress Susan Sarandon, and filmmaker Barbara Kopple, among others. Why, then, has he been barred by NY1, New York's 24-hour news channel, from participating in the Town Hall Debate with the other candidates that they are broadcasting? Why has Tasani been ignored by <em>The New York Times?</em> Is it possible that the mainstream media feels they have a vested interest in making sure that Queen Hillary wins reelection to the Senate? After all, if she were to be defeated in the primary, and not even make it to the November election, her 2008 Presidential Campaign would be on life support. Heck, her presidential bid would be DOA! Tasani has complained loud and long about what he calls the "Big Media Censors", but to no avail.<br />Don't get the wrong idea here. I am not a Jonathan Tasani fan. If he's being supported by people like Susan Sarandon and Code Pink, that tells me evrything I need to know about Tasani, and none of it is good. That's not the point, though, is it? Big Media <em>chooses </em>to cover Lamont like he's the most important political figure of the 21st Century because they are mad at Lieberman for supporting "Bush's War." They can afford to sabatoge Lieberman because he has no future in the Democrat Party and everybody knows it. Big Media <em>chooses </em>not to sabatoge Hillary, because they consider her to be a viable candidate for President in 2008. Very interesting. Sometimes media bias raises its ugly head the highest when the media is at its quietist.</div>