<div>I sent an email this morning to a friend in New York. He is someone I was getting to know just shortly before leaving, to whom I promised to make an effort to stay in contact. There were a handful of things I was truly disappointed to not get to pursue, I'd told him, and getting to know him better was one of them. But the other thing I told him was that I was really quite bad at staying in touch with people. For better or worse, I tend to operate by an "out of sight, out of mind" principle. It's like a default setting. Once, when I was about fifteen, I went to Las Vegas for a week with the basketball team from my high school for a tournament. On the fourth or fifth day, the coach asked me how my parents were, if I'd called to check in with them and let them know I was alright. "I don't know," I replied. "I haven't talked to them since I left. I kind of just forgot to call."  Secretly, I just hate hassling with figuring out how to make long distance calls and I have never liked being on the telephone all that much anyway. (At this point, all my friends in New York are freaking out. Do not worry, I still *heart* all you guys.)<br />
<br />So yeah, I "forget" about my parents, among other things. It's almost never ever intentional. But, I do find that there are times when keeping in contact is organic for me. And I promised to my friend that I'd try to let my contact with him be that way. Which is how he landed on my "to-do" list. I told him that too in my email, as well as the fact that I'd named the pair of cardinals in my front yard after him and his wife. Lest you think me strange, I'll explain that it's because he is an avid birder and well, it sounds ridiculous, but lovely birds make me think of him.<br />
<br />But more important than all this was that I confessed to starting to feel the first twinges of being a bit restless back down South. That I'd long suspected that moving North and then coming back after all these years would have more or less spoiled me for any hope of being content. I've seen what's out there; I know what I'm missing, and now I'm a snob. I knew it wouldn't take long to set in, and I said that mostly it had to do with finding decent food in restaurants (i.e. variety) and missing dearly a nice long commute that would allow me to have time to read. My new New Yorker came today and it will have to lie fallow until I find the time to finish the last one. Damn having to drive everywhere!!!!<br />
<br />My friend wrote back with a laundry list of things that make New York a superior place to live, to which I replied that at this point, it's ever so much like leaving a boyfriend only to discover a few weeks later as you sit at the dinner table with all your coupled friends that you cannot seem to recall a single damned thing that was ever wrong with him. In other words, that you'd had no reason to leave.  However, I knew these issues would come up and I also resolved to meet them head on, because something has also happened in the last couple of days that reminds me what I wanted to come back to. I'm being charmed to death by the minutiae of the lives of strangers.<br />
<br />I spent nearly twenty minutes on the telephone today discussing a perfect stranger's wedding plans, after he'd returned my inquiry about placing an ad for the yoga studio in his paper. We covered our business to be sure, but it was not first without a fair amount of pleasantry. Another sales rep teased me about my NYC phone number, but then confessed that his wife was from Poughkeepsie, so I teased back about the danger of marrying yankees. A third ad rep told me about her own background as a yoga instructor. Even the kid at the grocery checkout today was painfully nice. I'm having a hard time adjusting to it because my initial reaction is to think something is wrong with these people. But I kind of relish the discomfort, because I find that I am not mad about it, and I also find that I have that trait deep seated in myself, it's just lain dormant for so many years.  It's coming back like riding a bike. And it's just nice to be in a place where people have no reason to be nice to you other than the sheer pleasure they take from it. I've been missing that since the day I moved to New York. It was something I never got used to, and lately, I'd been trying to single-handedly deliver that character to the city, but it wasn't taking. In the words of one Senator Clinton: "It takes a village."</div>