<div>I've never quite understood what actually possesses and motivates honorable, decent sounding and appearing people, once subjected to political power via their elections to some office and having served there a number of years. <br />
<br />Take the current Bush Administration and its pathetic current status in comparison to what it desired everyone to believe it to be a short 18 months ago or so, who did indeed reflect some of those positive attributes on the surface at that time.  They even snookered Cahoona with their verbal smoke and when the air cleared sufficiently to actually view political and moral reality, Cahoona like everyone else with at least a modicum of intelligence, has lived in disgrace since finally waking up and viewing the chaotic morass which currently envelopes this country and the world, due to this administration's ineptness at ANYTHING.  They have become a scourge not only on the political landscape, but in the hearts and minds of millions who helped them access the power they so assininely wield.<br />
<br />I like George Bush . . . I always have.  If you're honest, you can't help but like him.  I liked Bill Clinton.  I always wanted to spend an all-nighter with him in bull shooting back and forth.  But both of these most recent presidents, as did their predecessors, fell on their own self created sword of denial and rationalization for immoral acts perpetrated upon the American electorate.  It's as if they've become conscience-less, like nothing matters except how they view things and their own personal comfort level, and let morality be damned in the process.  Neither started out this way, but somehow, someway, they both became the very antithesis of what they campaigned and railed against.<br />
<br />There are three main issues that will define the Bush Presidency in history books not yet edited:  The Senior Drug Benefit Program, The War on Terror, and the Katrina Hurricane Relief failure.<br />
<br />Bush -- a CONSERVATIVE, supposedly -- created, financed, and placed in motion the most expensive EVER governmental "welfare" program, EVER foisted on this great country, under the auspices of a drug benefit program.  Ask your parents and grand parents how well it's going!  Not only were they responsible for this nightmarish boondoggle of a government handout, but they, like all those that preceded them in such matters, didn't even have the decency to adminstrate it properly, for after making sure the drug companies will profit as they never have even dreamed of doing prior, there was no administration possible for this "welfare" monster.  It is and will continue to be a colossal and monumental money pit!   <br />
<br />Cahoona has said it infinite times prior and will say it again here:  NO ONE wanted to go to war with Iraq in this country, or the world, BUT the Bush Administration.  They had to create, invent, and beat the American electorate over its head to finally get the authorization necessary to do what THEY only wanted to do, and that was to illegally pre-empt a sovereign government by taking out its head, invading its borders, and laying waste to its country and in a homicidal sense, its citizens.  To rationalize this immoral action, they utilized faulty intelligence although the bulk of such was attempting to influence the neo-cons in Bush's camp, to forego this war.  As such advice was not in their immoral plans, it went unheeded and the minority intelligence view on what actions should be taken and what shouldn't, of actually invading Iraq, occupying it, and taking out its government, was jammed time and time again down our throats until congress even tired of it and finally were swayed by the executive branch's persistence, in a moment of congressional weakness, authorizing the subsequent immorality.  Understand:  There is NOTHING moral about invading a sovereign territory at our whim in order to do whatever it was this administration was attempting to REALLY do in that effort, and it DID violate international law!<br />
<br />These are two of the ONLY issues this administration will be remembered for, as things stand now.  (The changing of the philosophical direction of the Supreme Court has not yet been established for certain and I sincerely doubt that this is ever going to occur as things currently appear.)  They have bungled their stubborn immorality into realms on these issues alone, that will cost your children and their children multiplied HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS of dollars as a result of their governance.  Children will die world wide as a result of this monetary inhalation into these evil forays.  Believe me when I say, just on these two issues alone compared to ANYTHING that Gore or Kerry might have failed at or put into motion, we are FAR worse off than either of those two alternatives would have made us!  God forbid, but it may indeed take a Hillary Clinton to clean up the mess another republican administration has created and her morals will never stoop this low in the process.  If you could have imagined the absolutely worse case scenario that a Bush Administration might be capable of creating, I doubt that even their most vehement critics could have arrived at a level of morality that these actions dip below!<br />
<br />Ah, then:  There's Katrina!  Unfortunately for Bush, Michael Brown did not go quietly into that dark night in their attempt to scapegoat him, and the report about to be released by the republican held congress on the Katrina disaster, will substantiate his actions as being one of the most admirable in the Katrina affair, as far as this administration is concerned in the non-military ranks.<br />
<br />21 . . . did you hear me on that? . . . 21 different adminstrative agencies reported DIRECTLY to the White House staff and therefore, the President, on Monday, the day of Katrina's landfall, that the levees had failed and had been breached!!!  Bush as early as last week, STILL maintains that his administration knew NOTHING about it until late Tuesday afternoon!  The facts are in, are in the process of being published by the republican staff members on the hill, and will be released in a matter of days showing that yet again, this Bible believin', thumpin', born again Christian President, has lied to his constituents!  CNN knew just before noon Monday and broadcast it.  FOX and the other news outlets soon followed.  The national weather network knew it on Monday morning just after Katrina's arrival and broadcast it world wide including a conference call to White House staff, which was subsequent to a call they placed to the White House THREE DAYS EARLIER and that many days before landfall, telling them that the levees WERE GOING to be breached!!!!  (As you know, while people were dying in living color on our nation's news' outlets that all the world saw except, apparently, the Bush Administration, Bush winged it to San Francisco to push his Social Security failed agenda while Department of Homeland Security cheif, Chertoff, buzzed in a White House jet to Atlanta to speak at a conference on terrorism outside our borders, a FULL 48 HOURS LATER while STILL this administration was doing NOTHING to save lives in New Orleans!  Bush returned to his Texas vacation haunt and remained there on blissful vacation, until Friday morning, mobilizing national disaster emergency military relief only the night prior, almost 4 full days after the levees were breached!)<br />
<br />We all viewed the torturous deaths these Louisianans had to suffer due to national lack of cohesive response.  The "buck" does indeed lie with the Bush administration.  (I've been given preliminary information on what is in the final report by the bi-partisan committee chaired by republicans, and though I can't quote exactly from it for fear of many things, when it's published, be sure and download it to your desktop and you will be flabbergasted yet again at the utterly immoral failure of this administration to act when it had full knowledge of what was going on and happening.)<br />
<br />In comparison to this total lack of respect for the American people, their pocket books, and their veritible lives:  Clinton and his cigar habits appear almost pristine!</div>