<div>Let me say what goes without saying; politics is all too often an ugly business. As the recent scandals in Washington have shown us, it is all too often filled with bribery, croneyism, and corruption, and there is seemingly no end to the politicians who will sell themselves to the highest bidder. However, we must not assume that politics, or politicians must inherently be that way. Afterall, it was out of the political arena that Patrick Henry emerged, out of the political arena that William Wilberforce emerged, and out of the political arena that Abraham Kuyper emerged. So then, the question must be asked. Are there uncompromising statesmen of this sort with us today? I believe that there are, and I'd like to tell you more about one of them, Senator Rick Santorum. If you're keeping track, he is number three in my series on Christian heroes of today.<br />
<br />Rick Santorum was born May 10th, 1958 in Winchester Virginia, and raised in Butler County, Pennsylvania. Butler was at that time, a poor county, but as was the case with his parents, one filled with devout and faithful Catholics. Raised on Catholic, Christian values, and with a robust pro-America conservatism, (this despite the cultural predilection that emerged as he was growing up, and still continues in our day, to hate and despise America, rather than to rejoice over all of our blessings in living here) Santorum also understood from his youth onward what made America great, and what is diminishing it. What made it great were strong families with godly Christian values. Strong families afterall create strong churches, and communities, and thereby help out the government (and alleviate pressure from it) in preventing crime. Likewise, it is, at root, a weakening of the traditional (Biblical) family structure that is causing a deterioration of society as a whole. Santorum understands where the problem lies, and he has used his office as a United States Senator, to do what he can to try and fix it.<br />
<br />First as a congressman (from Butler county) and now as a senator, Rick Santorum's noteriety has come about as much off the political battlefield as on. As a Senator, he has championed such "pro-family" (buzz word meaning Biblically based) causes as a Constitutional ban on homosexual marraige, and banning violent videos from being sold to children, and such pro-life causes as a ban on partial birth abortion, maintaining the ban on military base abortions, and making it a crime to harm an unborn fetus during another crime. However, for those of you that are as interested in the intelligent design movement as I am, I might also add that Senator Santorum even went so far as to author an amendment to President Bush's No Child Left Behind Act, allowing "differing views to be taught in controversial matters of science." (and without saying it directly, everyone knows what he's talking about, allowing the teaching of intelligent design) To add to that, he is also close personal friend Phillip Johnson,(whom I honored as last month's Christian hero) and wrote the introduction to William Dembski's 2006 book <em>Darwin's Nemesis</em>, which honors Johnson and his contribution to academic freedom.<br />
<br />He has likewise defended these values, and many more outside of the Senate chambers as well, taking off his "Senatorial robes" as it were, and speaking as a man. It was the fruit of these deeply held convictions that charged him to write his magnum opus, <em>It Takes a Family</em>. In response to Hillary Clinton's book <em>It Takes a Village</em>, wherein which she says that the problems of today could be alleviated by even more federal involvement in the private sphere, Santorum shows that that would not only further weaken the American people, by causing them to have almost total dependence upon the federal government, but also, that the real solution to the problem of America's deterioration lies almost entirely outside the realm of government altogether. Here, unlike many politicians today, is a man who has a keen awareness of the limits of his office. In Santorum's eyes (and rightly so) the bulk of reformation in America, rather than lying in the the political sphere, lies instead with individuals, and with the Church. The solution Santorum states, is for individuals and churches to do their job and repair families, drawing them nearer together through (Biblical) values.<br />
<br />He also points out in <em>It Takes a Family</em>, that as our forefathers had a sense of putting both social and financial capital into their descendants future so that their world would be a better one, if we want to see America survive, for example to see her three hundredth birthday, (or even her four hundredth) rather than spending up the last bits of the capital that our forefathers put in (which we are rapidly doing) we need to put more in ourselves for our for our descendants. Although he never uses the term outright, this stems from what is called a "covenantal worldview", in other words, not just living for yourself, but seeing yourself as though in a covenant with your children, grandchildren, and so on, and thereby, wanting to do all you can so that they will prosper. This was the view of capital that our founding fathers had, and it is also, I believe, the Biblical one.<br />
<br />Beyond that, what is really amazing about this man is that he is a Senator from Pennsylvania. He can truly be called a conservative Republican (as conservative as any) and yet the State that he represents has voted Democratic in every election since 1988. Despite the constant pressure he must recieve to be otherwise, he is one of only three Senators from a Northeastern state, Republican or Democrat that are consistantly pro-life, and one of only two from that part of the country that are consistantly "pro family". It is not an easy thing, in Northeastern states especially, for a politician to "do justly, and to love righteousness," but through the grace of the Lord, Rick Santorum manages to do just that. Through his committment to Biblical values, and through his willingness to stick his neck out for the truth, Rick Santorum is a friend to the righteous, and also an enemy of the wicked, and for that, I sincerely hope that he will be re-elected this November. However, regardless of whether he is or not, after having read <em>It Takes a Family</em>, I am indeed confident that he will be the same Christian man that he is now, no matter where God places him. Lord willing, Rick Santorum will be remembered then as the man who caused people to realize once again that families, churches, and individuals should make most of the important decisions in society, and have most of the responsibilities for its welfare, and that comparably little should be left up to the government. I applaud him for his efforts in pursuing this goal, and in this, and in many other areas, I believe that Senator Santorum has a keenly Biblical worldview.</div>