<div>Thanks to Chris Lilik at:<br />
<a href="http://www.grassrootspa.com">www.grassrootspa.com</a>
<br />for his link to my "Dreaming in 2006" column. Time now, let's see if the intervening week has shattered the dream (more follow-ups to follow on this subject at some point).<br />PA: Santorum and Casey are in a dead heat right now. Conservatives are really irritated with Rick, or at least, the intrepid folks at Grassroots PA seem to be. Santorum's woffling on minimum wage issues and, yes, his hard slogging for Spector are irritating. Still, he'll get my vote, because it'll keep the smirks off the faces of Deaniacs and MooveOn types everywhere. And because, well, Bob Casey is Bob Casey. If I 've got to choose between two pro-lifers who are going to raise the minimum wage and who might have tenuous connections to conservatism at times. I'm going to pick the one who's reelection will make Michael Moore more likely to cry in his coffee. I still expect Casey to implode: boring candidates who resort to hard-running negative attacks at the end of bitter primary battles don't win unless they're incumbants. As for the gov race, Lynn Swann is breaking my heart by keeping such a low profile. Run Lynn run! There's another candidate I kind of like: Jeff Piccola. It's not just because he's a central PA man from the next county over: he's real solid on issues like tort reform and school vouchers, and if his swop on abortion's good enough for rock-ribbed Toomeyites like Ted Mehan, who am I to question? Piccola doesn't have name rec or a wild fund-raising base though, and Rendell's shown himself capable of defeating your average politician. So I like Piccola, but I'm not sold on his ability to seal the deal, sadly. C'mon Lynn, just do it!!<br />Ny: Rudi's thinking of running...against Spitzer that is. Gov does set Rudi up for a possible presidential run, and his mayoral background does predispose him more toward things executive I suppose. I'll be sorry to lose the Rudi Hillary slug-fest. The DA of Westchester county (can't remember her name, sorry) has been talked about by some folks at the WSJ. She's getting good publicity on the Jackson case, and if she handles it well, this could be a platform. I think Randy Daniels would be a spectacular choice though: carve into Hillary's minority base and give her a real fight. Daniels' appearance at CPAC speaks well for him. Can a notable conservative (though I'd like more on Daniels background and issue positions before giving him this label) seal the deal in NY against Hillary Clinton. Conventional wisdom says no. Of course, conventional wisdom also said no to almost every other conservative it's run across.<br />MD: Sarbanes is retiring, and the ever-obnoxious Quaisi Mfume (he of NAACP fame) is looking to run. Likely Republican opposition? My man Michael Steel. Obama Keyes ain't got nothing on this matchup baby! Steel is a real, smart, electable conservative in a very blue state. Will his bolting hurt Ehrlich? I'm not totally convinced that it will. For those who believe, as one condescending Baltimore Sun article on Steel quoted someone as saying, that the LT Governor was just a "brown face" who helped get Ehrlich over the line in MD, then it would. I think more highly of both of them.<br />MN: Mark Kennedy seems to have the Republican primary field clear for him. Look for him to raise a lot of money and start building a statewide grass roots. The DFL (yes, Minnesota calls their Democratic party the Democratic Farm Labor party) will have a hard time holding this one, and Polenti's looking solid.<br />Michigan: Granholm and Stabbenow are both vulnerable. That's the good news. Bad news: the Michigan GOP may just have a recruitment problem. As much as state senator Garcia would be a really really really cool governor/senator, I'm not sure how high his statewide name recognition is yet. I hope we can pull this off...<br />That's all I have at the moment. I'll post new stuff as I get it. Thanks again to Chris for the plug!</div>