<div>This is going to be a close election by most accounts. While the race may be won by inches, the fate of world freedom will rest on your shoulders as an American voter. It is a time when many fail to see the already overwhelming danger of half a billion infiltrating RADICAL Muslims. It is a time when one of our parties is focused only on returning to the power it held for 40 years at any cost. However, the difference is that they then had the leadership of people willing to fight for our country like Roosevelt, Truman and Kennedy.In World War II Americans at home made voluntary daily sacrifices in support of the war effort. As all other issues fall by the wayside and our generation’s World War III takes precedence in our lives, more and more Americans will join in efforts to keep our families and our country safe. But we can’t collect metal or rubber items for recycling into support for our front-line troops. What can we do? First, we can vote and drag two other friends to the polls with us.<br /> Each day the parallels of history become more evident and our days become carbon copies of days that led up to World War I and World War II.  The enemy’s aggression is the same, but the biggest similarity is in the percentage of Americans leaning toward isolationism and liberal idealism. We were late into World War I because those ideas kept America cowered and refusing to see reality. Likewise, we were late into World War II and it took Pearl Harbor to blast us into action.<br /> The stakes have never been so high and the world so dangerous as it is today. While the liberal Democrats seem to want to gain political power at any cost, we cannot let America pay that cost. These are not the Democrats of Roosevelt, Truman or Kennedy. This is the party that left Zell Miller and Joe Lieberman standing in the former party’s true ideals while it was hijacked by those running hard toward the left.  A small percentage of their populations hold millions of Iranians and North Koreans back from living in peace with the world. OF COURSE, the current clan of increasingly liberal Democratic  leaders are not the same. But their tenets are not those of the majority of Democrats in this time of danger. Never before has any party’s leaders been so overtly opportunistic that it attacks a sitting president daily during a war. In times of a pending war for survival, all other issues have always taken a back seat to national security. It is hard to believe that Democratic leaders are so focused on power that they are naively missing the massive storm clouds gathering even as the rain and hail is falling. They must actually believe that they can start to form a successful policy of negotiations to stop half a billion RADICAL Muslims on the day after the elections.<br />  John Kerry has not changed since his Viet-Nam protest days. Al Gore is still ranting and raving like a spoiled ten-year-old (boy did we dodge a bullet there!). Hillary Clinton is trying to keep her liberal base after acting out a 180 degree turn to look like an electable moderate. Nancy Pelosi is picking out drapes for her Speaker of the House office because she is sure that she will be third in the line for the presidency soon. The radical Islamic clerics, Osama Bin Laden and yes, even Sadam and Kim jon il would have much preferred Al Gore or John Kerry over George Bush. I’m just as sure they are hoping that the American voters will help them stop the fighting in their back yard and reopen our own back yard.<br /> Who will be the first to be able to deliver a nuclear weapon on our soil? It’s a race between Iran and North Korea.  They are emboldened by our lack of unity and the impossibility it seems we have in employing our power due to internal politics (something they don’t have to worry about). If our current but waning superpower status were reversed and Iran had it, just how long do you think you would be able to go down to WalMart to pick up supplies for the family vacation? If 911 caused the economic upheavals we had, what do you think will happen when Chicago or Dallas is vaporized?<br /> We cannot wait for a nuclear Pearl Harbor within the continental U.S. Our individual contributions to the war effort for what seems to be World War III must begin with our individual votes. We don’t have time to try the New Left Democrats and the weakness they will present to the world. We have to vote for a strong move to unity and regain respect for our strength as a nation willing to enforce freedom and fairness. You are part of the core that can lead the world to prevent the domination of the Mullah’s. It is your vote, and you can’t keep it at home on Election Day because of any other issue. Our country needs you now - in the voting booth.</div>