<div>We have written before that the only potential 2008 Presidential candidate with stature, experience and clean hands over the past six years is former Vice President Al Gore. We are not at all confident, however, that the campaign mistakes of his 2000 Presidential bid and the campaign mistakes of the Democratic Party in 2004 will not be repeated. In modern politics, it is an unfortunate reality that the candidate with ideals and policies most beneficial to his or her constituents – all constituents, not just the wealthy campaign donors or the poorest, welfare families – often does not make it past the party primaries. Mr. Gore’s views on global warming were ahead of his time, and due to campaign advice he kept these opinions to himself during the 2000 campaign. Mr. Gore, in our opinion, is one of those politicians with beneficial ideals, who was made to run the modern political campaign: never say anything controversial, say what each given audience expects you to say – if before farmers, talk of ethanol, agricultural subsidies and farm bankruptcy bailouts, and espouse policies and views the latest polling data shows the voters want to hear.<br />
<br />Since World War II, groups of narrow-minded, greedy, and frankly rather ignorant, shortsighted men and women have crafted the domestic and foreign policies of the US. Cliques in think tanks and policy organizations will form from time to time with a specific set of policy goals. And every few Presidential Administrations will bend an ear to these cliques, smelling a political opportunity to use the clique’s policy goal as a means to their political end. <br />
<br />As for the candidates and their staffs who have made it to the highest office, we have known a generous sampling of these individuals. While they start out as idealistic and promote policies that would help more than a narrow portion of their constituency, they nearly always lose their humanity on their way up the political ladder. Modern politics requires loyalties to so many ‘key’ campaign donors and constituencies that pushing policy that would aid the majority is nearly impossible. There is always a group that will be harmed – less money, less federal grants, less access to those in power – and refuse to go along with a proposed policy. It is a narrow political field a modern Congressperson or President has to work with. President Clinton tried to create a national healthcare system but could not make it beyond a proposal for Congressional review. And President Bush attempted to privatize Social Security – whether this was beneficial to the majority of Americans long-term may be debated – only to have his effort stymied despite a lengthy cross-country tour.<br />
<br />The political snares outlined above are some of the issues plaguing modern politics. Polls have shown that most American voters feel their vote does not matter. That politicians, campaigns and politics itself are becoming disconnected from the voters should worry every American. The Bush Administration is only the latest example, albeit a very obvious one, of the decline of American politics. Gone are the days of an Illinois lawyer debating a standing Senator. Gone are the days of serious policy debate, replaced by carefully prepared and rehearsed lines designed to elicit positive responses from test-voters with a button pad.<br />
<br />The year 2008 will be a watershed because it requires the voter to repudiate most of those presently in elected office and seek out candidates who are capable of presenting a new humanism for this Nation, based firmly on a wisdom and understanding of our Founding principles; principles that have been on the decline for far too long and must be remembered before the voter ceases caring at all<br />
<br />What we Americans have in Washington is so obvious and mediocre that it should anger any proud American. In each and every one of our names, our Government is running around the world killing people in the name of fighting the latest bogeyman. Our Government seems to support countries in the Middle East that most other nations regard as violators of human rights and troublesome. We dedicate so much of our military abroad that when a disaster strikes in the United States we do not even have enough soldiers to drive buses. In recent years, our faults are not in the stars but in ourselves.<br />
<br />In 2008, a change must occur against all those in elected office who have so easily abused our Founding principles and chosen to play along in the new political game rather than stand up for what is in the spirit of men named Washington, Madison and Lincoln. Those who would ask us to entrust them with our high offices must convince each and every one of us that they understand our humanistic principles – our Founding ideals – and will faithfully adhere to them in discharging their duties to and for the People.</div>