<div>Well – we’re back. We decided to shut down the blog and go on a 30 day drunk – and it looks like we stopped drinking too soon. As you know, we focus on state issues here for the most part, but it is just not possible to take a pass on what’s going on in George W. Bush’s America. These are dark times for our country and the fury of Hurricane Katrina has exposed just how bad off we’ve become.<br />
<br />Katrina was a natural disaster that could not be avoided. Even Rev. Pat Robertson can’t control where a hurricane lands. Category four hurricanes hit our country from time to time. They do billions of dollars worth of damage, destroy homes, cars, businesses, and disrupt lives for months and even years. What hurricanes have not done in the last 75 - 100 years is kill large numbers of people. Over the years the science of meteorology has improved greatly and everybody knows when a storm is coming. Death tolls from major hurricanes have been amazingly low over the years in the United States - that is until now. Katrina’s death toll is staggering. Most of the victims of Katrina are poor and black. Being poor and being broke are very different creatures for any sports out there who may not understand that. Being broke comes and goes. When you’re broke you can take out a loan, call your mother, or go out and get a job. When you’re broke there’s still hope. When you’re poor you’re usually born poor and you usually die poor. You don’t have anything and you don’t even know anybody who has anything. If you know your parents you probably didn’t learn much from them. They probably didn’t get an education and have done little to help you prepare for the future. It is really hard to be poor. And it’s hard to do a whole hell of a lot to help yourself when you’re a product of such a harsh environment. There’s nothing simple about being poor and simple solutions are as worthless as a Mark Sanford plan to improve public schools.<br />
<br />In the days following Katrina’s landfall the United States government was incapable of protecting the poor and the helpless people of New Orleans. It is not unreasonable to say that most of the dead were alive after the storm passed. Tragically, everybody’s worst fears came true shortly after when those levies broke and water came pouring in the city. The city’s poorest areas were the most dramatically effected. Hundreds of thousands of homes were almost instantly flooded to their roofs. Patriotic Americans drowned in their living rooms. Others crawled up in their attics or on top of their roofs. There they waited for help. Thousands who were in the Superdome, seeking shelter from the storm, were left basically unattended without food or water. Thousands more gathered at the city’s convention center, which sits on an area of high ground.<br />
<br />This was all on that Monday. Other than the brave rescue workers who removed so many from those roofs and attics by helicopters and boats these American citizens were left on their own with absolutely nothing. Those pulled out of attics and off roofs were left at the Superdome. Bush was still on vacation and the incompetent FEMA director was just getting around to asking for more man power. A significant portion of the New Orleans police department was dead, missing or had walked off the job. And it all happened right there for everybody in the world to see on CNN and FOX News. By Monday night, everybody knew that what was happening in New Orleans was a terrible tragedy. But we also just knew the troops would soon be on the seen and that the most powerful nation in the world would never let her own people die in the streets. After all, we kept people from starving in Europe and Asia after World War II, and even in Iraq and Afghanistan today. We just knew that America would rally and rise to the occasion. After all, these weren’t foreigners here – these were Americans. Those troops would arrive and restore the peace and airdrops would deliver all the food and water those stranded Americans could possibly need. President Bush would surely protect these Americans in peril and just like he did after 9-11, he would say all the right things and unite this country and lead us through this catastrophe.<br />
<br />As we all know, nothing happened Tuesday and Americans died. Nothing happened Wednesday and more Americans died. Anarchy spread through the city. Good people were forced to break into stores to find food for their children and water for the elderly. Bodies of Americans were piling up on the streets and were covered with flies. The flood waters were disease infected and drunken gangs of thugs roamed the city and terrorized the innocent. CNN was there, brave remnants of the city government were helplessly trying to gain control, but there was little sign of the American government. Thursday came and went and the American people became outraged and horrified. On Friday the troops finally arrived. Work to prepare the levies all of the sudden started. By the end of the weekend people were finally being moved from the city and water was being pumped back into the lake.<br />
<br />President Bush’s first visit to the area was a national disgrace. It was a shameful photo-opt. He smirked, winked, tried to look interested but seemed downright annoyed to be away from his ranch in Crawford. He posed with troops that hadn’t even been deployed yet into the disappearing city. He explained that just as US Senator Trent Lott would be able rebuild his destroyed beach house in Mississippi that the entire area will be just fine again. He said that he looked forward to sitting on Lott’s new porch. He told the dying Americans of New Orleans to keep the faith and before catching his flight out of hell, he promised, “I won’t forget what I’ve seen here.” He left and hundreds more died. His most shameful comment came the day earlier when he proclaimed, “Who could have foreseen the levies failing.” Well, Mr. President, apparently everybody but you. Of course it was President Bush who significantly cut federal funding for enhancement for those very levies. Bush needed that money to ‘protect’ the American people from Saddam Hussein. After all, there were weapons of mass destruction and 9-11 conspirators to be had in Iraq. How could a levy protecting hundreds of thousands of poor Americans possibly compare?<br />
<br />It was George Bush who decided not to follow the lead of Bill Clinton who appointed a seasoned veteran and expert in dealing with natural disasters to lead FEMA. Oh no, he appointed a life time loser who had no dealings with disasters and who had been fired from his last job. But you see that lifetime loser is a friend of the President and a major political supporter. What a perfect person to lead an agency like FEMA, right? Actually, FEMA is now full of Bush political hacks – including those who helped him through the recount in Florida during the 2000 elections.<br />
<br />To Bush’s credit he did cut his vacation, which was the longest vacation in the history of Presidential vacations, a few days short. By mid-week of the disaster and after thousands of American citizens had no doubt perished, the President’s instincts must have kicked in, so he went back to work.<br />
<br />For a little while even the President’s most ardent followers were a little miffed at him for his performance. But never fear – Karl Rove is here. By the weekend, the President’s political machine was in full swing. The Drudge Report was blaming the Mayor of New Orleans, Fox News was reporting that Bush “had pleaded” with the Louisiana Governor to order an evacuation before the storm hit. Of course, the truth is that she did order that evacuation and no such conversation with President Bush ever took place. By early the next week Tom DeLay was on TV blaming the heroic local officials for the carnage and the President’s spokesman was accusing Democrats and the press of playing “the blame game” because they were asking tough questions and demanding an investigation. By mid-week, Bush critics were being described as shameless and the press was backing off. The AM radio stations were buzzing with pro-Bush rhetoric and those local officials, many who hadn’t slept in over a week, were being savaged. And according to daily tracking polls, it worked. The percentage of Americans who faulted the federal government and Bush for the pitifully slow and deadly response decreased and the percentage of Americans who blamed local officials increased. Never mind that these local officials can’t mobilize an army or organize a water drop. Never mind the fact that FEMA blocked the American Red Cross from entering New Orleans to deliver life saving aid, an outrageous act which killed God only knows how many Americans.<br />
<br />For Bush and his people being President is about power and manipulating enough people to keep it. After the Bush propaganda machine kicked in people were calling radio stations all over the country bitterly complaining about some stupid thing Jesse Jackson and some rapper had said. We live in a sick society when Americans are bothered more by a flippant Jesse Jackson remark than the site over 1,000 Americans in the streets of a totally destroyed American city. The President’s mother seemed to echo the lack of respect so many apparently have for these victimized Americans when she chuckled and said that they’d “probably be better off somewhere else.” Mrs. Bush should tell that to the mother who can’t find her baby or the elderly woman whose husband died next to her on the street because he didn’t have any water for four days. She should tell that to those people who have never lived anywhere in their whole lives but New Orleans and are being forced on planes and not being told where they’re going until they get there.<br />
<br />This is the society built by George W. Bush and people like him. This isn’t your father’s Republican Party. The party of Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, and even Ronald Reagan is dead. The Bush propaganda machine may have successfully patched up his poll numbers somewhat; but good and decent Americans will never forget New Orleans. They’ll never forget the people who died there and will continue to value, respect and fight for our country’s neediest citizens.</div>