<div>Well, as I type this, it's 7:30pm ET, Tuesday, Aug. 8 '06, and while no major media outlets that I've followed have officially indicated that Joe Lieberman will lose his Democratic Senate Primary to Ned Lamont, when one "watches between the lines" the coverage of, e.g. Chris Matthews, that's the conclusion that one readily draws from those who are certainly "in the know."<br />
<br />Only the fourth or fifth time that a sitting US Senator's lost a Primary since 1980, so they say, and of course we're all saddened that one of those wasn't here in Pennsylvania in 2004.  That unfortunate result now coming to mind once again on a night like tonight, today's Lieberman loss is also a significant one for the political party so involved, for the US Senate, very probably, and for US politics in general.  Ned Lamont is a single-issue (anti-Iraq War), billionaire self-funder, while Joe Lieberman's been involved on most major issues since his election in 1988.  Don't get me wrong--Joe Lieberman's no saint.  As recently as a few weeks ago he voted for federal funding of embryonic stem cell research; in 1999 during the Senate impeachment trials he was part of a carefully-calculated effort to divert attention from his old law school classmate Bill Clinton's most serious and egregious, across-the-board, no-stone-left-unturned acts of criminality by misleading people into believeing that "it was all about sex;" and of course, anyone who would allow his own personal ambitions to get the better of him such that he would agree to be Al Gore's Vice-Presidential candidate cannot be really all that concerned with the best interests of the people of the United States of America when push comes to shove. Nevertheless, he was engaged in most of the major issues that came before the Senate, was not by and large a grandstander, a demagogue, or a lock-solid guarantee to necessarily vote the wrong way on just about every major piece of legislation that came before him.  How rare is that???? ...on either side of the aisle.  Less than half of the US Senate, including some of its members who would be counted amongst the frontrunners for both major party's Presidential nominations in 2008, would meet that same standard (imperfect that it may be) that Lieberman met in his up-to-now 18-year Senate career.<br />
<br />Joe Lieberman may run as an Independent if...when...he loses tonight's Democratic Senate Primary.  If he does, this very interesting race in Connecticut may be only just beginning.</div>