<div>What happened to the liberal Left this time???? Dollar after wasted dollar spent on the bashing, brutalizing, negative press, and attempted demoralization of, the President of these UNITES STATES OF AMERICA George W. Bush. Doesn’t it seem ridiculous, this rebirth of the 1960's, America-hating, anti-realist, "ism" loving, freedom-hating, non-working, tax payer-raping, “I want everything for free” HIPPIE GARBAGE. What was being sold to the rebellious anti-war, peace movement of the 60's was nothing more than a mind-altering chemical that led people to believe that reality was able to be reinvented.
<br />The fact that these folks were able to protest in the streets, use drugs with rare repercussions, create anti-American propaganda and still exist with total freedom obviously slipped their minds. Oh and by the way, they also must have forgotten that they could still live in America and walk the streets without having their heads chopped off, without having their children raped and murdered, were able to burn American flags and scream anti-American propaganda and still live the life of freedom, the AMERICAN life of freedom. Where did the freedom to burn the American flag in America come from????? The fact that we fought for freedom is the fact that deems us free. America took on any and every enemy to defend our way of life. We fought and conquered so our children could and can have a life free of tyranny and hate, and we will continue to fight to dismantle any foe who dare disrupt our way of living. Throughout history American opposition has held strong, especially the internal opposition that we have allowed for way to long − the putrid and foul naysayers of this great land who coexist among us, using everything that we have fought for so diligently. For example, spending federal funds to promote groups that disguise themselves as progressive when actually the progression is to regress back to the dictators and tyrants of the past that so many people fled to America to escape.
<br />Refugees gave up families, wives, husbands, anything that you and I as free Americans would kill for. They gave it up in the hope that they might attain a miniscule fraction of what we take for granted everyday: the freedom we so begrudgingly pass off as a "right” and the rights we so freely give away to become felons, enemies of the state, then only to turn around and complain about the justice system. The system that gives us three meals a day, appeal after tax-paid appeal, and a roof over your head. No I’m sorry, America won't decapitate you for stealing, or for praying to the God of your choice. We won't dig mass graves and commit genocide because of a people’s choice of religious practices and principles. Freedom of religion is what this country was founded on, yet when a prayer is said at the presidential inauguration the president of the National Atheist Society raises an uproar and goes to the Supreme Court to get prayer banned.
<br />You, my atheist friend, are the raper of freedom. The thief of everything beautiful. The God you ignore is the God that is mentioned in our "free nations" Pledge of Allegiance. Take your Godless liberal antics to Iraq and tell their leaders that you don’t want Allah in their prayers, because it offends you. The Gathering of the Gods wouldn't save you in your time of pitiful backlash. Your screaming: horrid and imploring outcries, pleading to save your now condemned soul, will be silenced at the time of your ceremonial beheading. In a time of war we need not display disagreement with our military’s actions. Ted Kennedy is the grandiose, immoral, scum-sucking, pig liberal that finds it in his best interests to bash our efforts in Iraq loud and clear for the opposition to hear. The terrorist movement is jumping for joy to know that in America we have a group of anti military activists in our government known as liberals. No more precision bombing!!!! I say bomb their cities, until they release information on every terrorist. I say stop the parties they have when America is under attack, one by one fire-bomb their masses until we have what we need. Even if we did this we would still be playing one hundred times more fair than that of the whacko terrorists. I say to the Hillary Clintons of America, join the NRA because if the Left has anything to do with it we will be having peace talks with Osama Bin Laden in 2008, trying to sympathize with the downtrodden pour souls in the Middle East. I say American patriotism now. A democratic election is scheduled to take place in Iraq on 1-30-05. Thanks to the American military we have brought to its knees one of the most powerful dictators in the history of the world. We reduced the Muslim Hitler (Saddam Hussein) to a spider hole cowering in fear. I would have loved to see the look on that worthless bastard’s face when American soldiers ordered him to the ground with high-powered machine guns pointed at his once powerful but now powerless head. I wish he would have resisted so one of our soldiers could have had the opportunity to spray that worthless dictators face with 1,000 rounds of red, white, and blue ammunition. A historic event is taking place. The once fear-driven people of Iraq can now have a voice. Eighty percent of the population is registered to vote, knowing the associated risks associated. There has to be something wrong if a person cannot cast a ballot without having to worry about being shot in the head or blown up by a random car bomb. But the idiot Left in America says we have no business in Iraq. The Left in America wants this election to fail, because if it is successful, the liberation of a tyrannical dictatorship will be underway. That will undermine everything the liberal whack job Left has been whining about since the beginning of Operation Iraqi Freedom. People are actually free to vote, not being raped, no more mass graves, no more ordered killings, no more torture chambers, and the IDIOT LIBEREL LEFT still says we have no business in Iraq. So I ask the Left , you agree with abortion, you agree with mass graves, ordered killings, and child rapings in Iraq, but you disagree with the death penalty?????? Like I said " LIBERALS” !!!!!
<br />
</div>