<div>When I was in the 6th grade I met a girl named Toni. She was a fellow drummer in band and a pretty good one at that. I will admit it, I had a bit of a crush on Toni as she was cute and I saw her several times a week during band practice and in sectionals. We spent the next 3 years playing the drums next to each other and became pretty good friends. Then after the 8th grade she told me she wasn’t to continue playing drums into high school. I was devastated. Well, not really devastated but I was disappointed. I spent the rest of the year trying to convince her she was good and should continue to play no matter what school she went to. She eventually went to Shafter High school I believe. I ran into her when she was working at my bank a few years after we were out of high school and she was doing fine. She looked great. I remember though how I felt when she decided not to continue playing. One of the things she said was that the drums were more of a guys instrument. I had never seen them that way because I had always had a girl (her) in my section. From that moment on I have always tried to pay attention to “women’s”. I have especially tried to encourage any girl who played or wanted to play drums or trumpet or any other male-dominated instrument to go for it. They can be every bit as good as a man. It seems to me like the past few years I have seen more females playing drums and percussion at the high school and professional level. When I was growing up there was the occasional all girl band like the Go, Go’s or later the Bangles. There was Sheila E or Karen Carpenter. Now, there are many players out there holding their own: Shauney Baby with Hillary Duff, Terry Lynn Carinngton, Stephanie Eglund was with Kid Rock, Cindy Blackman with Lenny Kravitz, Samantha Melony, Kitty Landers…. and many others. I have also seen countless young women performing in High school bands and drum corps across the country. I mention this because last night I played with some students for their elementary school spring concert and had the pleasure of playing next to a couple of young ladies who reminded me very much of Toni. I truly hope they enjoy playing and will continue to do so. No matter what others may say about who should be a drummer. I always enjoy working with student either in a clinic type situation or in a performance situation. I see this as a positive step forward for out society. One that I hope is being seen in other vocations. <br />Now this is seen from a mans view. For you women readers out there does it seem to be more of an accepting society as we move toward the later part of the first decade of the 21st Century?</div>