<p>I realize this is a long paper. But if anyone has time to read it I'd really appreciate comments. As Lisa Ede noted, there's a lot of good stuff, but the analysis doesn't seem tight enough.  I'm planning to use this as a complete chapter in my thesis, so I would REALLY like feedback.  What's covered too much, what's not covered enough, where are some places I can accentuate the positives of the program? Am I too harsh on Dana Gioia?</p>

<p>Thanks again everyone for a really great class.</p>

<p>~Steve Rust</p>
        <p>Stephen Rust<br />
Eng 595 / Ede<br />
December 7, 2005</p>

<p>Shakespeare in American Communities: How the National Endowment for the Arts is using the Bard to Secure its Future and Save America</p>

<p>	On April 23, 2003, the 439th anniversary of Shakespeare’s birth, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), under the direction of Chairman Dana Gioia, launched what it touted as “the largest tour of Shakespeare in American history.” (“The National Endowment for the Arts Launche”). In a press noticed released the day of the launch, the NEA described the event as “a gift of immeasurable value to the American people: a nationwide, 100-community tour of Shakespeare by six of the nation’s finest theater companies” (“Launches”). The initiative, dubbed Shakespeare in American Communities, has now entered its third year and shows no signs of slowing down, both the NEA’s National Council and the congressional subcommittee overseeing the organization have requested that NEA make the program permanent (Campbell). The project has the stated goal of reaching the broadest possible cross-section of Americans, bringing live theatrical performances to rural and urban America, to theaters both large and small, to audiences such as high school students and military personnel.  According to NEA figures as of May 2005 the project had reached 799 communities, eighteen military bases, and 1,304 schools in all fifty states through 945 performances, as well as having theater companies conduct 2,051 educational activities; the initiative has brought Shakespeare to a total audience of more than 433,000 (“Report: Phase One” 2, and “Report: Phase Two” 2).    As in indicator of the political popularity of the program, it should be noted that it was the primary NEA project highlighted by Gioia (pronounced Joy-a) in his 2006 appropriations request delivered to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies in March 2005 (Gioia 2006).  Big names in the world of politics, entertainment, and education have joined in the cause. First Lady Laura Bush and Motion Pictures Association of America President Jack Valenti serve as honorary chairs, and Angela Lansbury, James Earl Jones, and Harold Bloom are among those who serve on the project’s advisory board. Along with awarding grants for the performances themselves, the NEA has also devoted significant funding to educational programs.  Along with requiring participating theater companies to visit schools to work with both students and teachers, the NEA also funded the production of educational resource packets (each packet contains a DVD, VHS tape, audio CD, and print materials), which have been made available free of charge to teachers through the company Video Placement Worldwide; as of May 2005, more than 29,000 of the kits had been distributed (“Report: Phase One” 2, and “Report: Phase Two” 2).  Perhaps most symbolic is the logo chosen by NEA for the project, an image of Shakespeare superimposed on a waving United States flag.  The project also has a website, where one can go for more information on events, educational materials, press releases, lists of participating theaters, and grant requests, www.shakespeareinamericancommunities.org. <br />
The National Endowment for the Arts plays a pivotal role in promoting arts in the country. As a lighting rod for cultural debates, its political fortunes have been an indicator of the health of arts funding nationwide.  When contextualizing arguments about the role the NEA plays in American culture, it is easy to bemoan the fact that, as former NEA Chair John Frohnmayer bitterly points out, even when the NEA budget was at one of its highest points, around $169 million in 1988, it was still less than the cost of a single low-tech military aircraft (11). But there are hopeful signs as well that the NEA has greater impact than its budget suggests.  According to Gioia, “Even though public funding represents only a small portion of total arts funding in America . . . every dollars the NEA gives tends to raise $7” (Peterson).  Further, the renewed public image of the NEA since the controversies of the 1990s, when the House of Representatives was threatening to eliminate the organization completely has arguably impacted increases in overall funding for arts organizations nationwide.  The group Americans for the Arts released study in 2002, in which it claims, “America’s nonprofit arts industry generates $134 billion in economic activity every year . . . [including] $53.2 billion in spending by arts organizations” (Arts & Economic Prosperity).  The $53.2 billion dollars spent by nonprofit arts organizations represents a 45% increase from 1992.  (Unfortunately, in my research I was not able to turn up any figures detailing the impact of for-profit arts.  However, I think these non-profit numbers serve to illustrate my point.)  Therefore, it seems reasonable to suggest that analyzing the NEA and the role that the Shakespeare program plays in its history can provide a valuable look into the political nature of arts funding throughout the United States, even if its budget represents only small fraction of total arts spending in the country.  <br />
There seem to be two driving forces behind Shakespeare in American Communities: a political attempt by the NEA to reshape its public image and secure funding increases after facing complete elimination in the mid-1990s; and an attempt to do what it can to solve the what it characterizes as “an imminent cultural crisis,” namely “accelerating declines in literary reading among all demographic groups of American adults indicate” (Reading at Risk vii).   In a 2003 speech to the National Press Club, given shortly after he took office and titled “Can the National Endowment for the Arts Matter?” (an allusion to his 1991 essay “Can Poetry Matter?”), Gioia argues that the NEA has a well-documented “record of transforming American culture” and that, as he sees it, the agency’s proper role is “leadership, stability, and advocacy” (Gioia, “Can the”).   The NEA’s initiative suggest that it believes it can use Shakespeare’s popular appeal and literary value to secure its own future while doing what it can to have a positive impact in what Gioia characterizes as a battle over future direction our culture will take.  And the move is clearly paying off.  Shakespeare is indeed helping the NEA secure its own future, but whether or not the initiative will have a lasting impact on literacy trends in the United States will be more difficult to judge.  <br />
Unfortunately, the neither the NEA nor Arts Midwest (the regional arts organization cosponsoring the initiative) has yet to respond to my requests for information about the program, accompanying resource materials, and the creation of the logo.  However, I have uncovered a good deal of information that will shed light on the project.  <br />
	After developing a historical context to my essay by exploring the history of arts funding in the United States and then the history of the NEA, I will turn my attention to an analysis of Dana Gioia’s role in promoting the initiative and the responses of those critical of the program. The NEA project is closely linked to a debate about literacy trends in the United States, detailed in its study of reading trends through 2002, entitled Reading at Risk.  Gioia’s stated reasons for choosing Shakespeare tend to come back over and over again to the fact that all literary reading is in trouble.  As he explained to National Public Radio’s Elizabeth Blair, “We're even perhaps in danger of losing Shakespeare. So I felt that if we wanted to help all theater, all drama, Shakespeare was the place to begin” (Blair).  Critics attack Gioia for both his championing of project for political gains and his broader characterization of literacy trends in general.  Others claim that recent funding increases for the NEA were nothing more than political maneuvering by President George W. Bush in an attempt to sway voters in a tightly contested 2004 election.  <br />
The Culture Wars of the 1980s and 1990s have not been forgotten. As the nation’s standard-bearer for the publicly supported art, the NEA remains in a tricky situation. As both a political tool of those in power, and a force for positive change in society, the organization plays a complex role in the United States. But if, in the end, nothing new can be argued about the NEA itself, we can at least see the power of Shakespeare, not as a writer, but as a cultural symbol, to influence the debate in the ongoing battle over the role of art and literature in our society.  The NEA’s choice to tie its public image to arguably most famous and beloved writer in the history of the English language is a savvy move, that if anything, proves once again the immense cultural clout the Bard holds in the 21st century.  <br />
In order to provide a framework for my discussion of this particular NEA initiative, I will first provide a look at the history of the organization and the role it has come to play in American culture.  The government’s broad mission for the NEA, paradoxical as it sounds, is for the organization to both help the United States become a more enlightened and wise society through participation in the arts, and increase its global cultural domination, in order to avoid appearing to be merely a military and economic superpower. As the original act creating the NEA claims in one of key declarations of purpose:<br />
The world leadership which has come to the United States cannot rest solely upon superior power, wealth, and technology, but must be solidly founded upon worldwide respect and admiration for the Nation’s high qualities as a leader in the realm of ideas and of the spirit (National Foundation 1).</p>

<p>Only by understanding both the formative goals of the organization and the controversies that surrounded it in the 1990s can one more fully grasp the role the Shakespeare initiative in historical context of a government arts organization that is funded by American taxpayers.		The nineteenth and early twentieth centuries saw limited government financial support for the arts. The first instance of the Federal support for the arts occurred in 1817, when Congress commissioned “John Turnbull to paint four Revolutionary War scenes to hang in the capital Rotunda” (The National Endowment for the Arts, 1965-2000 6).  Later, in 1859, President James Buchanan appointed a National Arts commission, which “disbanded two years later because of a lack of Congressional appropriations” (6). At other points over the next fifty years, individual members of Congress and Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft proposed various government funded arts councils, but none of their plans ever resulted in sustained funding initiatives (6-7).  <br />
	The first sustained period of Federal support for the arts came during the time of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal program.  Through the Works Progress Administration, a key aspect of Roosevelt’s plan to bring the country out of the Great Depression, the government funded the Federal Writers Program, the Federal Theater Project, the Federal Art Project, and the Federal Music Project.  During 1935, for example, 40,000 artists were directly employed by the government.  According to Arlene Raven, “During the 1930s . . . the desire for social change spawned public programs” (11). However, it’s also important to note that economics motivated the government to act as well.  In the first book-length scholarly discussion to focus on Federal support for the arts in New Deal America, Jonathan Harris argues that this period in art would become “pivotal exactly because many post 1945 artists and modernist writers seemingly had come to define themselves and their values in opposition to . . . those active in art politics and art administration during the Depression” (3).  Clearly, several conflicting factors, such as economics, politics, and social desire, were at play even in these early days of government funded art; factors that would play pivotal roles in story of the NEA’s history and public arts funding in the country through to the present day.<br />
	Between 1945 and 1965, however, World War II and then the McCarthy era meant that government refused to spend public funds on public art. Federal funding for the arts basically stopped with the outbreak of World War II.  Artists were employed by the government to create propaganda for use in the war effort, but stopped funding the kind of projects that gave artists the freedom to design and create art as the artist saw fit.  The government basically took over Walt Disney Studios to create propaganda films (both cartoon and live action documentaries) for the war effort as well as commissioning other artists to design and illustrate propaganda posters (Disney liner notes).  Despite the fact that President Dwight Eisenhower advocated “the establishment of a Federal Advisory Commission on the Arts” in his 1955 State of the Union address, the proposal did not get through Congress (1965-2000 8). Throughout the 1950s and early 1960s artists worked without financial assistance from the government.<br />
	President John F. Kennedy championed the arts, although no federal programs were created under his tenure.  In a 1963 speech at the dedication of a new library at Amherst college, Kennedy said, “I see little of more importance to the future of our country and our civilization than the full recognition of the place of the artist” (9).  Kennedy also appointed August Heckscher as his special consultant on the arts (Brenson 2). <br />
Fulfilling Kennedy’s legacy, President Lyndon Johnson singed the National Arts and Cultural Development Act of 1964, which included a $50,000 appropriation (1965-2000 9).  Then, in 1965 Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act, which created the both the NEA and the National Endowment for the Humanities (11).  The organization would be headed by a chairperson who would be nominated by the president and serve a term of four years (National Foundation 3).  The passage of the bill, and the funding appropriations that followed, benefited significantly from the fact that Democrats held overwhelming majorities in both houses of Congress.  In the 88th Congress (1963-1965) Democrats held a 259-176 seat majority in the House and a 295-140 seat majority in the 89th Congress (1965-1967) (Office of the Clerk).  In the 88th Senate Democrats held a 66-34 seat majority and a 68-32 seat majority in the 89th Senate (United States Senate). <br />
	In his book Visionaries and Outcasts, Michael Brenson argues that duel factors were at work in the Johnson administration’s push to create the NEA.  In one respect, government officials saw the need for artists to help lead the nation out of the troubled times of the McCarthy era, one of the darkest periods in history for left-leaning artists, writers, and educators.  In a 1965 paper presented at a government panel created to discuss the right approach for arts funding, Gillford Phillips discussed the importance of a highly influential 1963 report in which Heckscher concluded that a renewed interest in art in American culture could be traced to three factors: “An increasing amount of free time, not only the working week but in the life cycle as a whole; a new sense of the importance of cities; and a recognition that life is more than the acquisition of material goods” (Phillips, qtd. in Brenson 3).  Brenson claims that “for the first time, respectable people in high places were coming to believe that the country needed artists because they were outsiders” (3). The same artists, who had faced the real fear of the communist witch hunts if they presented anything that could be viewed as un-American by questioning free enterprise, were now sought out by a government responding to a perception that the public was now viewing capitalism through a more critical lens (4). <br />
	The irony of the federal government embracing liberal artists, was not lost on the artists themselves, who were naturally skeptical of the new public arts association.  Many artists worried that the NEA would be a propaganda tool of the government that was nothing more than a response to (and would function similarly to) the system being used by the Soviet Union (8). However, the framers of the NEA went to great lengths to assure artists that the new system would support artistic freedom, not stifle or manipulate it. Federal officials spoke personally to many artists and invited a number of them to attend government meetings to provide input and direction as the arts council progressed from proposal to reality (8-9).  Artists had scored a major victory; it seemed the days of having to worry if their art would brand them as un-American and possibly land them in jail had ended.<br />
	The NEA could not have come into being without the staunch support of Lyndon Johnson.  But while important figures seemed eager to support the arts for their ability to inspire the citizenry and promote cultural awareness, Johnson, had other reasons for signing into law the bill that created the arts organization. As Brenson explains, “Johnson had never felt at ease with the arts, but he had good reasons for supporting this act.  He knew . . . that culture had become an American Cold War weapon soon after World War II ended (1).  As I noted earlier, the language of the bill itself echoes this reasoning.  The government saw itself in a fierce battle to prevent the spread of communism that had manifested in places such as the Soviet Union, China, and Cuba.  Johnson viewed the spreading of an American culture and ideology that supported political freedom, civil rights, and artistic creativity as a way to increase American influence and moral authority internationally.  On the one hand, the government would spread democracy by convincing the world of its dedication to enlightened wisdom; on the other it would put a stop the spread of communism through military force. The Domino Theory was a key argument in the case for invading Vietnam.  Johnson was also aware of “how much good press” Kennedy had received for supporting the arts and was “looking for support from East Coast liberals opposed to Vietnam” (1). Thus, since many arts supporters were among those most adamant in their disapproval of the war, Johnson was also attempting to use the NEA to deflect criticism from his military policies.  The creation of the NEA helped Johnson both develop what he saw as an important weapon in the ideological war with communism while at the same time playing to his base for support during troubled times.  <br />
My aim in this discussion has been to help explain the point I brought up in the introduction, that from its inception, the NEA has played paradoxical roles as a instrument of the federal government in that it has simultaneously been a public service that has functioned for forty years to benefit a multitude of creative artists and even, at times, subversive art and also been a propaganda tool to convince the world of the inherent greatness of democracy and capitalism.  Between 1965 and 2000, as then NEA Chairman Bill Ivey noted, the NEA distributed 111,000 grants, while nationwide the number of local arts agencies rose from 400 to 4000, nonprofit theaters from fifty-six to 340, symphony orchestras from 980 to 1800, opera companies from 27 to 113, and the number dance companies increased eighteen fold (1965-2000 5).  But while the NEA has clearly contributed to the spread of public art, Raven argues that “the NEA has been instrumental in developing public art, and at the same time it has inevitably codified and limited the category” (15).  And as both Brenson’s research of the NEA’s origins and the bill that created the organization point out, the NEA was never intended to be merely an altruistic endeavor to support American artists. A clearer understanding of the dual nature of the organization helps explain why the NEA must be characterized as functioning in American culture to both encourage and undermine genuine artistic freedom.  <br />
Before delving fully into the arguments surrounding Shakespeare in American Communities, it is important to touch on key historical aspects the early years of the endowment and then on the controversies that engulfed the organization in more recent years.  <br />
Early in its history, the NEA budget reflected the notion that the organization was more of a political gesture than anything else, but the organization spent its money on projects that would have lasting influence. It was appropriated a budget of just under $8 million for its first year and awarded its first grant to the American Ballet Theater and spent its largest amount, $1.3 million, to establish the American Film Institute (AFI) (1965-2000 13-14).  It is worth noting that the AFI continues to this day to be a leader in film preservation, demonstrating how a little initial funding can go a long way.  <br />
With the election of republican presidential candidate Richard Nixon in 1968, one might expect decreased interest in federal support for the arts, but the opposite would become true during his tenure and that of his replacement Gerald Ford. By 1970, the NEA budget was still only $8.25 million, but the organization was continuing to broaden its range of influence to incorporate grants to educational institutions. In 1970 the NEA awarded a grant to the College Entrance Examination Board to support the establishment of three innovated Advanced Placement courses, two in the visual arts and one in music (18). In 1971 two important changes were made. Congress raised funding levels to $15 million and Nixon appointed Nancy Hanks as chair (19).  By the time Hanks two terms as chair ended in 1978, the NEA budget stood at just under $124 million, a 14 fold increase (28).  <br />
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s the NEA had proven itself adept at funding organizations and individuals that would play prominent roles in the world of arts and letters and maintained a positive public image.  Some key grants of the time include a Promising Writers’ grant to Alice Walker in 1970, a grant to Garrison Keillor in 1974 which he used to create a program that on Thanksgiving 2005 celebrated its thirtieth anniversary show, Prairie Home Companion, another in 1978 to create Live from Lincoln Center which has become a permanent fixture on public television, and one in 1981 to the support the creation of the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, D.C. (18, 22, 28, 33).  Staggering budget deficits during the Reagan administration due to the nuclear arms race led to the first cuts in the NEA’s budget in 1982, but things seemed to be going pretty smoothly for the organization (34). Funding increases quickly returned, and while they slowed, the organization remained popular. In 1985 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences went so far as to award the NEA an honorary Oscar, “in recognition of its 20th anniversary and its dedicated commitment to fostering artistic and creative activity and excellence in every area of the arts” (Awards Database). But then, in 1989, all hell broke loose.<br />
Conservatives in Congress and the media had a field day attacking the NEA over several controversial artistic displays that had received NEA funding.  The most prominent of these controversies surrounded the homoerotic photography of Robert Mapplethorpe, collected under the title The Perfect Moment, and a photo by Andres Serrano entitled Piss Christ, which depicted a crucifix immersed in urine (O’Connor 4-5).  Conservatives like Jesse Helmes and Pat Buchanan exploited the controversy to further their own political gains.  The NEA has never fully recovered from the episode. In fact, in his 2000 presidential campaign, Buchanan was still relying on the controversy to attract conservative voters. In an ethical appeal to conservative moral authority, Buchanan argued for the elimination of the NEA, claiming, “We must dump the cult of Robert Mapplethorpe and replace him with an American Michelangelo” (Buchanan).  Of course it should be pointed out here that while historians and biographers debate the exact nature of the Renaissance master’s lifestyle, it is widely acknowledged that Michelangelo was himself a homosexual (“Michelangelo”). While we may chuckle at the irony in Buchanan’s statement the point of including his comments is to point out how the organization has been used as a political tool both by supporting it and attacking it, regardless of the specific politician’s understanding of art or art history.<br />
At the center of the storm that raged over the Mapplethorpe and Serrano controversies was NEA chairman, and Oregonian, John Frohnmayer, who was appointed in mid-1989. In his memoir of the period, Leaving Town Alive: Confessions of an Arts Warrior, Frohnmayer claims that the administration of George H.W. Bush had no interest in his opinions or his approach to art, wanting nothing more than to avoid controversy (99). Attacked by conservatives as “the government’s official smut purveyor” Frohnmayer was unsuccessful in staving off a public relations nightmare and protecting the NEA from a conservative attack that nearly toppled the organization (1).  Bitter and worn out, Frohnmayer was forced to resign his position in early 1992 after serving only two and a half years of his term (2-3). Frohnmayer’s story illustrates once again how an administration viewed the NEA not for its value in promoting the arts, but as a political symbol.  In this case, supporting the NEA was not doing the Bush administration any good, no matter how many other projects were being funded besides the controversial ones. The administration distanced itself from the organization rather than defending it.<br />
The ‘Culture Wars’ continued to rage throughout the 1990s.  In 1990, Congress amended the bill that established the NEA, adding that it would have to abide by standards of decency acceptable to the American population (O’Connor 1).  In response to the measure, artists around the country were outraged, and close to $1 million in NEA grants were refused (Robinson 37).  Calling the legislation, “unacceptable, reprehensible an insidious” New York Shakespeare Festival producer Joseph Papp refused a NEA grant of $323,000 that had been awarded to the acting company (37).  An NEA challenge to the law made it to the Supreme Court in 1998. In writing the majority opinion for the Court, which ruled against the NEA, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor states that the restrictions imposed on the NEA by Congress did not violate the First or Fifth Amendment. (10-11). Between 1990 and 1995, things only went from bad to worse for the embattled arts organization.<br />
While the conservative Republican party gained every greater influence in Congress and the nation as a whole seemed to swing toward the right, the result was devastating for the NEA.  In the 103rd Congress (1993-1995), Democrats held a 258-176 seat majority, with one independent, but in the 104th Congress (1995-1997) Republicans held a 230-204 seat majority, again with one independent (Office of the Clerk).  The Senate went through a similar switch, moving from a 56-44 seat Democratic majority in the 103rd Senate to a 53-47 seat Republican majority in the 104th (United States Senate).  In 1995, which the NEA’s own literature cautiously describes as a “pivotal year,” the House succeeded in voting to completely eliminate funding (1965-2000 54). Only a carefully crafted compromise by the Senate avoided this outcome.  The result for fiscal year 1996 was a 39% cut in NEA funding from $162.5 million to $99.5 million (54). The NEA had survived, but was significantly weakened.<br />
Appropriations for the NEA remained steady in 1997 and began to rise slightly between 1998 and 2002 during the tenure of Bill Ivey. However, while it has made slight gains, funding has never recovered to pre-1996 levels (56-62).  Into this situation stepped a new NEA chair in 2002, Michael Hammond, who initiated the idea for the Shakespeare tour (“Othello and the NEA”).  But Hammond died only eight days into office.  Into Hammond’s shoes stepped Dana Gioia, a former marketing executive, who had managed the Jell-O account at General Foods, and who gave up business in 1992 to pursue a writing career full-time (Palatella and Kass). Gioia is the first poet to be named NEA Chair, earning confirmation in 2003, and rose to the position with the support of First Lady Laura Bush (Garment). Among his literary accomplishments, Gioia’s collection of poems, Interrogations at Noon, won the National Book Award in 2001.<br />
	Gioia first made waves in the arts world in 1991 when the Atlantic Monthly published his scathing attack on contemporary poetry. In the essay, entitled “Can Poetry Matter?,” Gioia “argued that poetry had shifted from mainstream artistic and intellectual life into a subculture of poets writing for other poets and called for increased conversation between poets and the public” (Sofer).  Gioia caught the attention of the arts community with claims such as, “Today most readings are celebrations less of poetry than the author’s ego. No wonder the audience for such events usually consists entirely of poets, would-be poets, and friends of the author” (Gioia, “Can Poetry Matter?”)  Launching his attack most directly at the growing profession of creative writing teachers working for universities granting fine arts degrees, Gioia claimed that “like subsidized farming that grows food no one wants, a poetry industry” was functioning to “serve the interests of the producers and not the consumers” (Palatella and Kass).   Unfortunately, the Oregon State Library does not contain, in print or electronically, issues of the Atlantic Monthly from 1991 or 1992, so I was unable to find letters to the editor. However, in their 2002 article in the Chronicle of Higher Education, entitled “10 Years After, Poetry Still Matters,” John Palatella and Leon R. Kass look back at the events surrounding the articles release.  Palatella and Kass point out that, “the magazine received about 200 pieces of mail in response,” and that although Gioia’s book of the same title, Can Poetry Matter?, “became a finalist for a National Book Critics Circle Award in criticism and received many favorable reviews,”  they remain like many writers, “still irritated by Gioia’s argument.”  Palatella and Kass go on to claim that while projects like poet laureate Billy Collins’s “Poetry 180,” a poem-a-day syllabus for high school students published in 2002, do seem to be examples of “verse with a very narrow emotional and linguistic range” of the type Gioia attacked, that his essay is was not very well reasoned to begin with, has become nothing more than “a historical curiosity,” and that the 10th anniversary edition Can Poetry Matter? that prompted their article was “commemorating not longevity but obsolescence” (Palatella and Kass).  Obsolete as his views may seem to some, one can see clear remnants of Gioia’s ideas in the ways he speaks about the Shakespeare proposal and his dramatic statements about the future of literacy in the country.  Two attitudes in particular come up again in later statements. The first is that in the 1991 essay, Gioia seems to have, as Palatella and Kass claim, “appointed himself a proxy of the popular will” with phrases such as “most readers now assume” and “to the average reader, the proposition . . . may seem self-evident” (Palatella and Kass and “Can Poetry Matter?”).  The second is most clearly illustrated in the conclusion of his essay:<br />
It is time to experiment, time to leave the well-ordered but stuffy classroom, time to restore a vulgar vitality to poetry and unleash the energy now trapped in the subculture. There is nothing to lose. Society has already told us that poetry is dead. Let’s build a funeral pyre out of the desiccated conventions piled around us and watch the ancient, spangle-feathered, unkillable phoenix rise from the ashes (Can Poetry Matter?)</p>

<p>Statements such as this prove that Gioia has for a long time held a grandiose vision of the death of literature appreciation in the United States and the ability of those with romantic sensibilities to rescue it where academics are doomed to fail.<br />
So why would this seemingly fiery romantic, who just prior to agreeing to serve as NEA chair was teaching in Sonoma, California, “at the Teaching Poetry Intitute, which conducts writing workshops – yes, workshops – for teachers and writers” decide to join forces with a president generally considered to be even more uninterested in the arts and literature and his father Palatella and Kass).  Despite the fact that his wife is a former teacher, George W. Bush has been the target of an onslaught of attacks from educators and writers, who are disgusted by this president who supposedly got no better than a C in English at Yale and whose signature education initiative “No Child Left Behind” is constantly attacked for damaging American education by forcing ever more standardized testing on American children and stringent standards on educators all while being a completely unfunded. <br />
Perhaps as chairman of the country’s most influential arts organization, Gioia now has the chance to fulfill his pledge to help rescue society from supposed literary collapse. He seemed to suggest this and at the same time distance himself from the president in explaining why he took the position, “I didn’t want this job, I was having a very successful career as a writer . . . [but] I felt that, you know, if somebody had to come here and rebuild the endowment, unfortunately, it was going to be me” (Brown).  To trust or not to trust Dana Gioia, that now seems to be the question for many following the efforts of this poet and former marketing executive as he turns to Shakespeare’s cultural cache to help rebuild the organization.  The choice of Shakespeare can’t help but put one in mind of Richard III’s ‘acceptance’ of the crown from the Lord Mayor and Buckingham in Shakespeare’s play when thinking of Gioia’s description of his own rise to power.  This is not to suggest anything sinister in his rise to power, but to merely suggest that there may be more to the story than he claims.  In 1991, Gioia openly lamented of poets that, “as individual artists they are almost invisible” and it seems ironic that the essay would lead him down a path of notoriety that would bring him to the place where he would even be considered for nomination to such a high-profile job.  And, while I have never met Gioia personally, and thus again do not want to suggest that I can understand his motives through anything other than what I have to work with, it does seem reasonable to suggest that someone with his background in business must obviously realize the fact that being NEA Chair will hardly do lasting damage to his ability to succeed financially as a writer after leaving office.  He cannot fail to see how the more recognizable he is the more books he will sell.  Of course, such knowledge also makes him astute enough not to admit that in an interview about why he took the job.  But we must acknowledge that his attacks on poetry and his role at the NEA have helped to make him the kind of visible poet he argued did not exist in 1991.<br />
Whatever his motives for accepting the president’s nomination, one cannot fail to notice how Gioia has used his skills in marketing to great advantage as NEA Chair.  According to Michael Phillips, theater critic for the Chicago Tribune, “the best thing Dana Gioia’s done for the NEA is get people thinking . . . that the existence of the NEA should not be questioned” (Blair).  It is important to note that the Shakespeare initiative is only the most public of the organization’s many grant recipients.  For example, in an interview with Marianne Combs of Minnesota Public Radio in late 2003, Gioia noted that “last year, in addition to the beginning of the Shakespeare program, we sponsored 138 new plays – including a play that ended up winning the Pulitzer Prize” (Combs). Of course, Gioia did not mention a single author or title by name.  Only Shakespeare gets mentioned by name. Shakespeare is also the only individual artist mentioned by name in Gioia’s request for funding given before the House subcommittee (Gioia “2006”). Although he quotes Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and reads a brief poem of his own, Gioia also does not mention a single contemporary artist in his 2003 speech to the National Press Club (Gioia, “Can the”). At first, this seems a little strange given that elsewhere Gioia has said, “while the agency has made 120,000 grants to artists and arts organizations . . . most of those grants are invisible to everyone except the recipients” (Gewertz). But looked at from another angle, it is a safer bet for Gioia not to mention the names of any artists who could arouse even the slightest bit of controversy.  <br />
Perhaps the best example of just how much Shakespeare has been able to accomplish for Gioia is the fact that the NEA has enjoyed the renewed support of political conservatives, including one of the most influential conservative publications in the country, the National Review.  According to the Review’s Roger Kimball, “After a coupe of decades of cultural schizophrenia . . . the NEA has become a clear-sighted, robust institution intent on brining important art to the American people” (qtd. in Winn). It is shrewd maneuver that has paid huge dividends for the NEA in terms of its image with the powers that be in Washington, namely the Republican Party and conservative journalists. A celebration of the initiative on Capitol Hill in October, 2003 seemed more of a public relations photo opportunity for lawmakers rather than a true honoring of the effectiveness of Shakespeare in promoting literacy.  I found a press release, on the website of Republican Representative Tom Petri of Wisconsin who took part in the celebration of the success of Shakespeare in American Communities, that stated, “Among the highlights was a Congressional skit with excerpted lines from King Lear, Measure for Measure, and other . . . Petri identified his costume as ‘some Bishop of something or other,’ and said that he enjoyed celebrating Halloween a few days early” (“Cong. Petri Takes Stage”). Clearly, this is another example of lawmakers using the NEA in an attempt to score points with voters.  Gioia seems to be giving Republican lawmakers exactly what they want, a way to appear to be making a grand gesture to support the arts. However, a gesture is all it appears to be.  Congressman Petri clearly seems to show no interest in Shakespeare’s value as an artist. Remember that these statements appeared on his own website. Congressman Petri does not worry that his constituents will be utterly appalled that he did not bother to find out the name of his character nor encourage participation in the theater as anything more than playing dress up for Halloween.  <br />
Gioia seems to be playing right into the hands of conservatives in Congress, who could care less about Shakespeare’s ability to inspire great thinking, than in the fact that he does seem a safe enough choice to allow them to appear to be great supporters of great art. As recent elections have proven, every vote counts.  Statements in the NEA’s reports and by Gioia demonstrate the lengths to which they are going to ensure popular support for the initiative.  For example, some of the cities chosen for Phase Two of the project seem like they were chose for name value rather than anything else. The Phase Two report includes the following in its introduction: <br />
From Rome, Georgia to Moscow, Idaho; Avon, Connecticut to Belgrade, Montana; Florence, Kentucky to Ediburgh, Indiana; Monaco, Pennsylvania to Armenia, New York; Orleans, Massachusetts to Cuba City, Wisconsin, the Arts Endowment is helping to reinvigorate theater presentations and strengthen arts in communities across the country (2). </p>

<p>True to the NEA’s marketing form, the first Shakespeare in American Communities performance in 2003 took place in the symbolically selected New London, Connecticut (“Othello and the NEA”). On the one hand, Gioia makes grandiose claims about the value of Shakespeare in order to persuade people to support the effort. In his overview statement on the initiative’s website he claims, “In order to understand American culture or American theater one must first understand Shakespeare.” Elsewhere he has claimed, “The Shakespeare program has come to symbolize the new National Endowment for the Arts, which is one that’s really dedicated to reaching people.”  But on the other hand, it is difficult not to see such appeals to the popular as being attempts at marketing rather than a true sense of reaching out.  Such affected language, makes it all the easier to understand how even the organizations sincere attempts at developing programs with popular appeal are undercut by political maneuvering by the Bush administration in using the renewed popularity of the NEA as a political weapon.  <br />
Perhaps the most heated debates about the Shakespeare initiative arouse in early 2004 when President Bush include an $18 million increase in NEA funding in his budget request to Congress.  The decision was widely covered in the media as the proposed increase would be the largest for the organization since its heyday.  In his 2005 appropriations statement to the Congressional Subcommittee, delivered on April 1, 2004, Gioia presented the president’s request for an NEA budget of $139.4 million (Gioia “2005).  While the request was attacked as mere political maneuvering by such left-leaning arts supporters as Susan Medak, managing director of the Berkeley Repertory Theatre, it was praised by conservatives such as Roger Kimball (Winn). The budget increase received nationwide attention.  And perhaps it did help Bush secure a few swing voters in a very tightly contested presidential campaign against Massachusetts Senator John Kerry.   One strong indicator of the political astuteness of Bush’s move can be seen in a Wall Street Journal Op-Ed from February 3, 2004 by Leonard Garment. Garment, a former civil rights counselor to President Nixon, is a New York lawyer and chairman of the Jazz Museum in Harlem.  Garment’s essay demonstrates how difficult it was for liberal opponents of the president to attack him on the arts funding increase.  Garment claims that in late 2003, he delivered a lecture to the Curb Center for Art, Enterprise, and Public Policy at Vanderbilt University, in which he argued that “the culture wars of the 1980s had flattened government support for the arts for the foreseeable future,” but that the Bush administration proposal had breathed new life into hope for government funded support for the arts and that it would be difficult for anyone to find fault with the increase.  Many advocates and even opponents were quick to credit Gioia for improving the organizations public image and giving Bush a way to show support for the arts without provoking a moral outcry.  <br />
There was far less coverage of the fact that in 2005, after winning the election, Bush proved that his supposed support for the arts had indeed been a political gesture.  In his 2006 appropriations statement to the Congressional Subcommittee, Gioia presented the Bush administration’s request for an NEA budget $121.3 million, almost exactly $18 million less than the previous year (Gioia “2006”).  These budget figures indicate Bush’s support for the organization was nothing more than a campaign tactic. Clearly, Gioia has managed to secure a much greater popular image for the NEA, but the sustained funding increases that one assumes would come along with such powerful taglines as the Shakespeare initiative’s motto, “A great nation deserves great art,” have not yet taken effect.  Perhaps progressive funding increases will be in the NEA’s future; it seems inevitable that they will if politicians on spectrum see the opportunity for political gain by supporting the organization’s achievements. Clearly the organization has gained a lot by simply avoiding the ire of the Right.  Perhaps Gioia has accomplished more for the organization than it appears.  With a future free of controversy, the NEA is sure to enjoy at least the nominal support of Congress.<br />
What is impossible to know is what exactly is motivating Gioia personally.  His background strongly suggests that he knows the situation that he is in and aware of how to take advantage of it. One wonders if he realizes the position the administration has put him in but valiantly does what he can to play the game because he sees it as the best he can in a no win situation to support the arts and try to resuscitate the NEA so that future generations of Americans be inspired to renewed excitement about critical literacy. Can one work for a president like George W. Bush and truly be dedicated to the kind of romantic vision of arts adoration and love of critical literacy that Gioia espouses?  As someone who has dedicated his own life to education and promoting great literature, I want to believe that Gioia truly believes in his mission and that liberal critics such as myself are merely put off by his ties to Bush and his obvious uses of marketing strategies to further the organization’s efforts.  But on the other hand he seems so affected politically that one cannot help but be suspicious. In his 1991 essay, Gioia was completely unafraid of upsetting his audience with challenging statements that really seemed to be shot from the hip, such as “Poets must regain the reader’s trust by candidly admitting what they don’t like as well as promoting what they like. Professional courtesy has no place in literary journalism (Gioia, “Can Poetry Matter?”). Yet now he carefully avoids frank and open discussion of his real views on funding for art that will challenge, and yes occasionally upset audiences.  In a 2004 interview Business Week’s Thane Peterson challenged Gioia to explain his position on funding controversial art.  In promoting the Shakespeare project Gioia claimed, “the purpose of art really is to ensure the completeness of humanity, to cover every human possibility.” Suggesting that the controversial art was necessary to cover every human possibility, Peterson asked, “Could we get something like the Mapplethorpe exhibit funded today?” To this Gioia replied:<br />
You’ve asked me a question I’ve been asked 500 times. Let me give you a frank answer. There are people in this country who are obsessed with fighting the cultural battles of the previous century. My goal . . . is to compel America to answer the following question : What do we see as the future for the 60 million American kids who have been born since the Mapplethorpe exhibition? What role do we want art to play in their communities and their education? (Peterson).</p>

<p>As a poet and educator, Gioia is well aware of what the word frank means.  But when asked to answer a straightforward yes or no question, he dodged it.  The marketing executive who has to always think about his job security so he doesn’t end up like John Frohnmayer won out.  And it is this all too carefully crafted political side of Gioia’s public persona that makes him hard to trust, even if, like Gioia, one wants to see poetry and a love of all literature rise like a phoenix from the flames.<br />
  Before turning my attention to the program’s outreach into education, I want to discuss the controversial report that seems to have prompted the shift toward educational initiatives.  Conducted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census, the survey had a sample size of more than 17,000 adults and was comprised of questionnaires (as opposed to the 1997 NEA survey, which, while it reported more favorable statistics, used less reliable survey methods, relying on a random-dial telephone survey) making it “one of the most comprehensive polls of art and literature ever conducted” (29, ix). The executive summary reports ten key findings, which I will summarize: 1) the percentage of American adults reading literature (classified as any work of poetry, drama, or fiction in print or electronic format) declined from 56.9% in 1982 to 54% in 1992 to 46.7% in 2002; 2) the percentage of adults reading “any book” declined from 60.9% in 1992 to 56.6 % in 2002; 3) “the rate of decline is accelerating;” 4) women read more than men but both groups are declining rapidly; 5) “literary reading is declining among whites, African Americans, and Hispanics;” 6) “literary reading is declining among all education levels; 7) literary reading is declining among all age groups;” 8) the steepest rate of decline, 28%, occurred among adults age 18-24; 9) “the decline in literary reading foreshadows an erosion of cultural and civic participation,” 43% of literary readers perform volunteer and charity work as a opposed to 17% for non-literary readers, 49% compared to 17 % attend performing arts events, and 45% compared to 27% attend sporting events; and 10) “the decline in reading correlates with increased participation in a variety of electronic media, including the Internet, video games, and portable digital devices.” (ix – xii).  In its executive summary, the report argues, “If one believes that active and engaged readers lead richer intellectual lives than non-readers and that a well read citizenry is essential to a vibrant democracy, the decline of literary reading calls for serious action” (ix). <br />
Given what he said of the death of poetry in 1991, it is not surprising that Gioia’s response to figures released in Reading at Risk would be equally dramatic.  As I noted earlier, critics have charged Gioia with presenting himself as a “proxy of the popular will.”  Such charges seem justified again when analyzing his introductory statement to the report, as Gioia claims, “The concerned citizen in search of good news about American literary culture will study the pages of this report in vain” (vii).  Yet although there is much to despair about, the report does also include information that “contrary to the overall decline in literary reading, the number of people doing creative writing – of any genre, not exclusively literary works – increased substantially between 1982 and 2002” (22).  One of Gioia’s key claims is that an increased use in electronic media are a key factor in the rates of decline and his worries about the future of a nation of people who consume electronic media: <br />
Reading a book requires a degree of active attention and engagement. Indeed, reading itself is a progressive skill that depends on years of education and practice. By contrast, most electronic media such as television, recordings, and radio make fewer demands on their audiences, and indeed often require no more than passive participation. Even interactive electronic media, such as video games and the Internet, foster shorter attention spans and accelerated gratification (vii).</p>

<p>This statement is especially interesting given that report debunks one of the American’s primary cultural myths, and one of Gioia’s own claim by pointing out that a person’s television viewing habits had no statistical effect on reading habits (14-15).  <br />
Why would Gioia make a claim about television that he knew would be contradicted by the very report he his introducing.  Did he make the mistake many in Congress do and not bother to read the report?  Or is it instead that he wanted the report to prove something that he already believes.  Why would Gioia go to such great lengths to decry the rise of electronic media and yet have Jack Valenti act as honorary chair?  Is it merely that his audience for Reading at Risk would likely be educators and librarians while the audience for the Shakespeare is larger and perhaps less ready to denounce electronic media. Perhaps the romantic literary side of him is clashing with the politician and businessman role he must play at the NEA, but that’s giving him the benefit of the doubt.  And what is even more telling given what he says of television is that the educational resources packet produced to accompany the initiative relies heavily on electronic media, since it contains a DVD, VHS tape and audio CD.  In fact the 25-minute, VHS documentary, Shakespeare in Out Time, uses almost exclusively video clips from film Hollywood film adaptations in order to reach out to students.  Of the more than thirty film video clips used in the documentary, only three are from theatrical productions. I was able to contact Al Hillmann, at Hillmann-Carr, the company that produced the documentary.  According to Hillmann:<br />
We used film clips rather than stage production clips because we wanted to cover a lot of teaching points . . . Also it was painfully obvious that stage production clips were 1) difficult to learn about, 2) more costly to license . . . 3) often very poorly taped, 4) played by relatively unknown (thus not high-Q actors [sic], especially for captivating teenage audiences) and thus, 5) inferior to the movies in general effectiveness. Dana Gioia and we fully agreed on the desirability of including more theater scenes, and we did use as many theater clips as we could manage to get . . . Good luck! Until proven otherwise, any friend of WS is a friend of mine.  Al (Dec. 1, 2005)</p>

<p>Hillmann’s comments suggest that while, Gioia may not be a great fan of television and videos, he sees their value as pedagogical tools.  I should point out here, that I showed the video to a class of high school juniors in an American literature class, and while they pointed out that the content about Shakespeare was nothing they hadn’t heard before as a standard introduction, they were intrigued by the number of adaptations released in the past ten years along.  I asked my colleague at South Albany High School, Kay Burt, to review the materials. Kay was in the final year of her career, had taught Advanced Placement for fifteen years, been instrumental in working with area community colleges to develop College Now, which allows high school seniors to take Writing 121 for credit, and had also taught groups of non-college bound students.  Kay told me that she saw little value in the resources packet and would not recommend its use to anyone.  I on the other hand wanted my students to see it because I wanted to them to see what the NEA was trying to do to lure them in to Shakespeare.<br />
I must say as someone who in the past has tended to hold many of the same opinions as Gioia, regarding electronic media I found myself having to confront the same contradiction. At first I didn’t bother to read the entire report, but as I decided that I could not ignore the significance of Reading at Risk as it applies to the Shakespeare initiative I looked deeper at the report and discovered these points that aren’t completely negative.  The fact that television viewing had no impact on literary reading forces one to wonder if the same is not perhaps true of other electronic media.  As someone who has been critical of attempts by those like James Paul Gee to tout the learning principals embedded in video games I have to take a step back and reevaluate my position.  It seems natural to suggest that spending more time reading electronic media means less time spending literary texts.  But while I can admit that there are more factors at work when evaluating literacy, literature reading and how they effect our overall development as a culture, Gioia, perhaps tends to portray issues like a politician, not a literary critic.  That Gioia wants us to see a picture of literacy in black and white when it fact it contains more shades of gray is misleading.  Is it that he doesn’t see the complexity of the issue or is there a reason why Gioia continues to portray the future of literacy with such a doom and gloom mentality. The puzzle of why people are reading less is simply more complicated than Gioia wants to have us believe. <br />
The Reading at Risk Report unleashed a flurry of commentary, according to Mark Bauerlein, Director of the Office of Research and Analysis at the NEA, by December 2004, around 500 stories had already been issued about the report (Bauerlin).  Though many, like Chronicle of Higher Education critic Carlin Romano, do not disagree with the fact that we live in a culture that does not readily encourage private reading, they do not agree with Gioia’s interpretation of the data.  Romano argues:<br />
“Headlines like ‘Fewer Noses in Books’ or ‘Literary Reading Declines in America’ may thus distort the more profound finding of Reading at Risk: that literary reading, like all reading, may not be so much in quantitative decline as shifting from a recreational to work-oriented activity full of challenge, difficulty, and potential achievement” (Romano).</p>

<p>Of course, there is no small bit of irony in the fact that the editors at the Chronicle, chose to give her piece the title, “Who Killed Literary Reading?”  Others, such as Francine Fialkoff, editor of the Library Journal, argued that while Gioia pointed to electronic media as a major culprit, there is much to be gained from increased access to technology. According to Fialkoff, “As computer use in libraries has soared, so has circulation and author programs, among numerous other activities.” Fialkoff also quotes Richard Reyes-Gavilan who, while participating in a panel discussion that took place that immediately followed Gioia’s presentation of the report, described a New York Public Library campaign designed to get Teen’s to the library.  The program is called Teen Central, and uses, according to Reyes-Galvilan, “all of the technology . . . that may be killing reading. Eventually they get bored with computers, CDs, and DVDs, and the only thing they haven’t explored are the books . . . We’re creating a reader where otherwise we might not have the opportunity to do so.”  Angela P. Dodson, executive director of the Black Issues Book Review, suggests that perhaps African Americans are doing other kinds of reading that were not covered by the report, such as nonfiction biographies and autobiographies like Bill Clinton’s My Life.  In discussing younger readers, Dodson writes: <br />
I do not always know what to make of urban lit or erotica, but I do know that young adults are eagerly buying and reading these books. Isn’t it better that our young people are at least reading something . . . My hope is that this unconventional point of entry into the world of books will lead young readers to more substantial literary choices in the future and a lifetime of enjoyment and enrichment (Dodson).</p>

<p>Clearly, we must admit that while Dodson may have a valid point, Gioia could hardly appear justified if the NEA were suddenly to support the publication of erotic literature as its more public nationwide effort to fight literacy.  No it will stick with Shakespeare because, it is both a popular choice and there are few who could argue that giving kids, their first chance to see a live professional theatrical production is a bad thing.  <br />
Like him or not, there is no arguing that Gioia has fostered steady support for the Shakespeare project. The choice of tying the NEA’s image to Shakespeare has not only appealed to political conservatives; actors and educators have also gotten on board.  Prominent Hollywood actors, not usually thought of for having connections to Shakespearian drama, such as Tom Hanks, Christina Applegate, William Shatner, Michael Richards, and six other American TV and film stars signed up to appear in Lawrence Bridges’ documentary Why Shakespeare?, which is included in the education resources kit and consists of a series of brief monologues by popular culture icons interspersed with those of adolescents from various ethnic backgrounds each explaining the cultural importance of Shakespeare and what his verse has meant in their lives. Harold Bloom, Sterling Professor of Humanities at Yale University and arguably the most prominent contemporary Shakespeare scholar, agreed to serve on the initiative’s advisory panel.  After the success of the first year’s performances, and in the wake of it 2004 report Reading at Risk, the NEA decided to more specifically target school-aged audiences.  The organization reports that it reached nearly 196,000 children at 1,054 schools between June 2004 and May 2005 (“Phase Two Report” 2).<br />
In an essay that has taken a fairly critical approach to looking at the situation, it would be unfair not mention the positive feedback the program is receiving, especially from educators.   Along with performances, theater companies that wish to receive funding must also provide educational outreach opportunities to schools. Many schools receive a “day of professional development . . . and post-performance talk backs” (“Phase Two Report” 81).  Seemingly in direct response to Gioia’s mission to promote literacy, the Yale Repertory Theater’s feedback form to the NEA stated:<br />
The program engages both educators and students in a thorough study and understanding of the dramatic text and theatrical production, assisting students in developing their critical thinking skills as well as their reading, writing, and communication skills, and introducing students, through theater, to a variety of cultures, traditions, and ideas (81).</p>

<p>While one may wonder if the theater company is telling the NEA what it wants to hear, I did find other examples of teachers touting the benefits of the program. Perhaps in response to claims such as the one made by the editors of the Dallas Morning Star that a result of the Shakespeare initiative “could be collateral damage for the theatergoers of the future, who may choke on the resulting cloud of toxic boredom,” the program is going to great lengths to ensure that it works to find ways to engage students (“Funding Conscious”).  Along with the educational resources that seem to suggest a pedagogy of reaching to out to students through what they know, movies, and in order to teach them to appreciate live theater, the NEA is also asking theater companies to conduct teacher training.  In one such workshop, held for teachers in rural Washington state, members of the Seattle Shakespeare Company “looked at characters from an actor’s viewpoint and gave the teachers tips on how to hook teenagers on the work of a man who made his mark in the 1590s” (Carraway).  The NEA is also broadening the scope of the project by involving acting companies aside from the large organizations involved in the first year of the project. In Alaska’s remote Hoonan City, Shakespeare’s plays were performed by native actors, leading teacher Susan Baldwin, to claim “Being involved in this initiative has given students a broader perspective of the world and their part in it” (Campbell).  <br />
The successes of the program help to highlight the paradoxes inherent in it.  President Bush, like presidents before him, has given token support to the NEA because of what he thinks it can do for him politically The choice of Shakespeare to become the focal point of the NEA’s efforts has at least as much, if not more, to do with Gioia’s efforts to improve the image of the organization.  Yet for all that, the program has displayed an ability to engage educators and students in critical thinking about Shakespeare.  According the Gioia, the NEA continues to function as a supporter of talented, innovative, new, American artists; he just doesn’t really talk about them publicly, and doesn’t seem to be doing a lot in his position to make those invisible poets more visible.  Michael Phillips exclaims, “funding for the arts should often be a leap into the unknown” (Combs). Contrast this with Gioia’s exclamation, “I refuse to believe that arts funding is controversial,” (Gewertz) and you get a clear picture of the two sides surrounding the Shakespeare project.   There are also those that take a more moderate approach.  Joe Dowling, director of Minnesota’s Guthrie Theater Company, which received one of the first Shakespeare grants, says he would rather spend his time telling politicians to “free the NEA up” rather than attack the agency for making the best of a bad situation.  And in the end that’s probably the best way to sum up what Dana Gioia has been able to accomplish at the organization.  No one who follows politics in this country should really be surprised that President Bush would raise the NEA’s budget for a single year given his record.  No one should be surprised that despite his efforts to avoid controversy the NEA budget remains for 2006 roughly the same as it did in 2003 when Gioia took over.  But Gioia has clearly managed to bring a sense of stability back to the organization.  When Shakespeare in American Communities was launched, Gioia called it his “Hail Mary pass” as an attempt to revitalize the NEA and restore its image with the public (“Othello and the NEA).  But there remains a great deal more work to be done if the agency is going to have a true impact on the nation’s literacy rates.  Only a much greater cultural shift will have an impact like that.  In a recent article about contract negotiations between Hollywood screenwriters unions and motion picture studios, John Auerbach reports that while two branches of the same writers’ union were suing each other over petty disagreements and also getting worked over by the studios in contract talks, Viacom recently awarded three top executives $160 million in salary and bonuses.  As a mentioned earlier, the NEA budget for 2006 is $121 million.  Thus, while the NEA may go to great lengths to tout the success of bringing Shakespeare to a culturally deprived nation, there are much bigger issues at stake.  As statements by Dana Gioia and Congressman Petri illustrate, in Washington D.C., Shakespeare seems to be a far more political figure than an educational or artistic one.</p>

<p></p>

<p></p>

<p></p>

<p>Annotated Bibliography</p>

<p>1997 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts: Summary Report. Washington: National <br />
Endowment for the Arts, 1997.<br />
This reports provides an interesting contrast with the 2004 report on literacy.  The tone of the report is very positive. The authors (unknown) claim that the statistics bode well. Most importantly, one half of the U.S. adult population attended an art activity in the past twelve months.  They also report that 63% of the adult population read literature. They surveyed 12,349 people. The numbers don’t even seem to match the 2004 report. However, the 2004 report claims that this 1997 report used less reliable survey methods and was not intended to report on historical trends over time (Reading at Risk 33). Therefore I chose not to use this report in the essay.</p>

<p>Arts & Economic Prosperity: The Economic Impact of Nonprofit Arts Organizations and <br />
Their Audiences.  Americans for the Arts. 2004. http://www.artsusa.org/informa tion_resources/research_information/services/economic/impact/default.asp (12/2/05).<br />
A 190-page study, including twenty pages of summaries and descriptions of methodology. The study, released in 2002, reveals that “America’s nonprofit arts industry generates $134 billion in economic activity every year.”  Nonprofit arts spending generates $24.4 billion in federal state, and local tax revenues.  Spending by arts organizations increased 45% from 1992.</p>

<p>Auerbach, John. “Writers United?” Cinema Journal. Winter, 2006. Forthcoming. (Page <br />
numbers not yet available.<br />
I was working on this article and a even though it doesn’t directly relate to my paper an but number jumped out at me. In an article about recent contract negotiations between Writers Guild unions and major motion picture studios.  While two branches of the same union were fighting over petty disagreements and getting screwed by the studios, Viacom recently awarded three top executives $160 million in salary and bonuses.  This really helped me see the NEA battle from an important perspective. The fiscal year 2006 budget request by the NEA was $121 million.</p>

<p>“Awards Database.” Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences. http://awardsdata <br />
base.oscars.org/ampas_awards/DisplayMain.jsp?curTime=1133468036866 (Viewed 11/30/05).<br />
Source of information regarding special Oscar awarded to the NEA in 1985.</p>

<p>Bauerlein, Mark. “Revisiting  ‘Reading at Risk.’” American Libraries. Letters and <br />
Comments Section. Vol. 35, Issue 11. December 2004. Database: Academic Search Premier. Viewed 11/30/05.<br />
This is an interesting source in that it shows just how closely the NEA watches developments.  Bauerlein, head of the office of research and analysis at the NEA wrote this as a response to editorials and reports in the publication that were critical of the NEA report, Reading at Risk.</p>

<p>Blair, Elizabeth. “Profile: National Endowment for the Arts’ Shakespeare Initiative <br />
Elicits Mixed Feelings. Weekend Edition Saturday. National Public Radio. June 19, 2004. Database: Newspaper Source (10/20/05)<br />
This is a very well balanced report on both sides of the issue.  Blair interviews a range of people, from Gioia to the director of the Kentucky Shakespeare Festival to the head of the New York Arts Coalition (a group of 200 separate arts organizations). The issue is raised of why Shakespeare and not Arthur Miller or another American playwright and Gioia’s response is that if since even Shakespeare is in danger of no longer being read that it is important to begin with him.</p>

<p>Brenson, Michael. Visionaries and Outcasts: The NEA, Congress, and the Place of the <br />
Visual Artist in America. New York: The New Press, 2001.<br />
As the title suggests, Brenson’s focus is mostly on NEA support of visual artists and not theater, dance, or literature.  However, Brenson posits an important theory about how the NEA developed out of post-McCarthyism America.  His contention is that Lyndon Johnson saw how much good press JFK got from supporting the arts and wanted to find a way to connect to liberal voters who were upset about the war in Vietnam, and that more importantly, Johnson believed that American culture had become an important weapon in the Cold War. </p>

<p>“Bring Back the Bard.” Editorial. The Washington Times. April 30, 2003. Database: <br />
Newspaper Source. (11/3/05)<br />
This editorial works well juxtaposed with the editorial from the Dallas Morning News a few months later in 2003.  Here the Times argues that even though they aren’t sure the government should fund the arts that at all they are glad it is Shakespeare.  They also point out that major American universities no longer require Shakespeare for an English major.</p>

<p>Brown, Jeffrey. “Joy of Reading.” September 24, 2004. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/ <br />
66/education/july-dec04/reading_08-24.html  (11/01/05)<br />
This is an interview with Dana Gioia in which Brown asks some direct questions.  The interview was conducted after the NEA published the “Reading at Risk” report on literacy that shows that less than half of the U.S. adult population now reads literature.  According to Gioia, the report “quantifies the dumbing down of America.”  Brown asks Gioia what he thinks should be done about the trend and Gioia is unable to offer a clear vision other than asking for collaboration.</p>

<p>Buchanan, Pat. “Close NEA to Stop Desecration of Christian Images.” June 12, 1999. <br />
http://www.GoPatGo.org/“Issues:NEA” (11/7/05).<br />
As I got into this project I realized I needed to find stronger voices who opposed the NEA.  Well Pat Buchanan to the rescue. This was part of his platform during his run for the presidency in 2000. Ten years after Mapplethorpe and Serrano and he’s still bashing the NEA. And how I laughed when he said we needed to “dump the cult of Robert Mapplethorpe and replace him with an American Michelangelo.” According to Wikipedia Michelangelo was most certainly himself a homosexual.  This could be such a great comedy routine.</p>

<p>Campbell, Karen. “Shakespeare is Coming Your Way.” Christian Science Monitor. April <br />
19, 2005. http://www.csmonitor.com/2005/0419/p11s02-legn.html (11/4/05)<br />
The main reason I chose this article is because of some great quotes Campbell got from individual teachers.  I didn’t really trust all the teacher comments on the NEA’s Shakespeare website, so I was good to find an outside source. The teachers love the program. Also important is a quote from Gioia that the congressional subcommittee has asked the NEA to make the program permanent.</p>

<p>Carraway, Nick. “Teachers Learn How to Better Teach Shakespeare.” The Daily World. <br />
October 18, 2005. http://wwwfreerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/150596/posts <br />
(11/6/05)<br />
Writing from Hoquiam, Washington, Carraway details how one area of the country has benefited from Shakespeare in American Communities. The Seattle Shakespeare Company conducted an in-service for teachers giving them tips on reaching young students an offering a view of how actors read Shakespeare.  Also 900 students from ten high schools traveled to Seattle to watch live performances of Shakespeare plays. </p>

<p>Combs, Marianne. “Guthrie takes Othello on Tour.” Minnesota Public Radio. November <br />
30, 2003. http://news.minnesota.publicradio.org/features/2003/12/01_ combs_othello/ (11/2/05)<br />
This radio broadcast tells the story of the Guthrie Theater’s tour as part of the Shakespeare initiative.  Combs quotes Michael Phillip of the Chicago Tribune who criticizes the project.  She also quotes Guthrie artistic director Joe Dowling who takes claims that people should be petitioning congress rather than attacking the NEA. There’s also a great quote from Gioia explaining that the NEA also funded 138 new plays in 2003, not just Shakespeare.</p>

<p>“Cong. Petri Takes Stage to Promote Shakespeare.” News from Representative Tom Petri. <br />
October 29, 2003. http://www.house.gove/petri/press/shakespeare.htm (11/4/05)<br />
This is most definitely why I gave up studying political science as an undergrad. This is politics and art at its nexus. Republican Tom Petri of Wisconsin, a six-term representative, took part in a little skit on Capitol Hill to promote the NEA initiative.  Petri could not even name the Shakespeare character he played.  Wow that’s going to inspire a lot of kids. The context of this is even sadder in light of the NEA’s recent report on literacy (see below).</p>

<p>Fialkoff, Francine. “Is Reading Out?” Library Journal. Editoral. Vol. 129, Issue 13. <br />
August 15, 2004. Database: Academic Search Premier. Viewed 12/1/05.<br />
As the editor of one of the leading publications for librarians, Fialkoff has a lot of influence.  She is critical of Gioia’s reading of the figures released in Reading at Risk, claiming that other factors may be involved in how to best measure reading rates.  Specifically, the report failed to include library visits, which have risen, in its report.</p>

<p>Frohnmayer, John. Leaving Town Alive: Confessions of an Arts Warrior. Boston: <br />
Houghton Mifflin, 1993.<br />
Asked to resign after only two and one half years into a four year term as Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, Frohnmayer is able to offer unique insights into the bitter fighting that when on about the NEA in the late 1980s and early 90s.  Obviously Frohnmayer is telling the story from his perspective, but he is very insightful.  Also interesting is that Frohnmayer is an Oregon native. His brother, Dave, lost the 1990 election for governor and is the current president of the University of Oregon.</p>

<p>“Funding Conscious NEA Makes too Safe Choice: Shakespeare.” Editorial The Dallas <br />
Morning News. October 1, 2003. Database: Newspaper Source (10/29/05)<br />
In sharp contrast to the Washington Times editorial, the Morning News slams not only the NEA but the bard himself.  They say of Shakespeare’s verse, “Who knows or who cares what they’re saying.” They go so far as to claim that the project will do more to doom American theater than promote it and that there is no need to tour Shakespeare because his work is already everywhere.</p>

<p>Garment, Leonard. “The ‘Bloody Crossroads.’”  Wall Street Journal. February 3, 2004. <br />
http://www.opinionjournal.com/19/?id=110004638<br />
A former jazz musician, chairman of the Jazz Museum in Harlem, and New York Lawyer, Garment’s offers the perspective of both an artist and administrator.  Back in the Nixon administration Garment worked with NEA Chair Nancy Hanks.  Garment gives a lot of credit to First Lady Laura Bush for increases in NEA funding and the choice of Dana Gioia as chair. One interesting story involves Mrs. Bush inviting a big group of poets and writers to the White House for a conference on the importance of American poets in history. She cancelled that meeting because the poets planned to use the opportunity to protest the war in Iraq.</p>

<p>Gerwertz, Ken. “Good News from NEA’s Dana Gioia: Bush Budget Asks $18 Million <br />
Increase for NEA.” Harvard Gazette Archives. December 12, 2004. http://www.news.harvard.edu/gazette/2004/0212/27.gioia.html (11/3/2005)<br />
This source interested me for a couple reasons.  First was that it shows Gioia’s willingness to take interviews from just about anyone and everyone who asks.  Much of the information is repeated elsewhere, but here Gioia explains that he wants NEA grant recipients to be more visible to the public, which has only happened in the past with controversial artists.</p>

<p>Gioia, Dana. “Can Poetry Matter?” Orig. Pub. in the Atlantic Monthly, May 1991. Text <br />
viewed online at http://www.danagioia.net/essays/ecpm.htm (12/1/05)<br />
This is the essay that first made Gioia widely known to the arts community. At the time he was still working full-time as a marketing executive at General Foods. However, soon after this was published he was able to give up business full time for a career in writing.  Gioia claims that poetry has developed into a subculture, unlike its role in previous decades in the United States.</p>

<p>Gioia, Dana. “Can the National Endowment for the Arts Matter?” Speech to the National Press <br />
Club. June 30, 2003. http://www.nea.gov/news/news03/PressClubSpeech.html. (12/7/05)<br />
Here Gioia outlines his vision for the organization.  He points out the high point for funding came in 2002 at $176 million. He also strong argues for stability as the key to the agency’s future success and continued role in the government.</p>

<p>Gioia, Dana. “Statement to Committee on House Appropriations Subcommittee on <br />
Interior, Environment and Related Agencies” Fiscal 2005 Appropriations. April 1, 2004. Database: Military and Government Collection (11/30/05)<br />
I went back to the 2005 appropriations to because the NEA’s budget numbers didn’t seem to match exactly what I was seeing in regards to the Bush plan to raise the budget.  I was surprised to find that the 2005 appropriations request, $139.4 million, was $18.1 million higher than the 2006 request.  It suggests that Bush was playing politics in 2004.</p>

<p>Gioia, Dana. “Statement to Committee on House Appropriations Subcommittee on <br />
Interior, Environment and Related Agencies” Fiscal 2006 Appropriations. March 10, 2005. Database: Military and Government Collection (10/30/05)<br />
The political circus surrounding the NEA plays out strongly in Congress. Gioia is upbeat and positive. The Shakespeare initiative is only one of many ways in which the NEA is spending its money, but it is the top focus of Gioia’s comments to the congressional subcommittee.  A positive force, Gioia claims, “the agency enjoys a renewed sense of confidence in its public mission, reputation, and record of service.”</p>

<p>Harris, Jonathan. Federal Art and National Culture: The Politics of Identity in New Deal <br />
America. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995.<br />
Harris’s book is a study of U.S. government involvement with art in the 1930s.  Harris claims that that art historians have ignored this period in history for too long.  I also plan to basically ignore this period as it is outside the scope of this paper. However, it was important for me to see federal support of the arts before the NEA was part of the plan to bring the U.S. out of the depression.  </p>

<p>Hillmann, Al. “RE: Fwd: Request for Information.” Email to the author. 12/1/2005.<br />
Mr. Hillman, of Hillmann-Carr, was kind enough to provide me with a little information about the documentary Shakespeare in Our Time, which his company produced for the NEA to include in its Shakespeare resources packet.  Hillmann wasn’t too happy with me that my first email wasn’t openly filled with praise of the video- lesson learned- and hasn’t replied the second email that I sent asking him to share how much his company charged the NEA for the video</p>

<p>“Michelangelo.” Wikipedia. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michelangelo (12/1/05)<br />
I felt it necessary to have a source to backup what I already knew about Michelangelo.  Actually, there are historians who debate the claim that the Renaissance painter was homosexual, but there is general agreement and popular belief that he was.</p>

<p>The National Endowment for the Arts, 1965-2000: A Brief Chronology of Federal <br />
Support for the Arts. Washington: National Endowment for the Arts, 2000. <br />
In his forward, then chair Bill Ivey claims that the NEA “strengthens American democracy at its core. This 100+ page pamphlet details the funding level and major initiatives year by year, beginning with a brief timeline of arts support between 1817 and 1966, which really saved me an incredible amount of digging to get to a place where I could focus on the NEA itself.  Of important note was that the greatest period of growth in the NEA’s history occurred between 1970 and 1978 during the reign of Nancy Hanks and mostly during Republican administrations. During Hanks tenure the budget increased 14 fold.  1996 was the worst year for the NEA, as its budget was cut 39%.</p>

<p>National Endowment for the Arts Launches Largest Tour of Shakespeare in American <br />
History.” Press Release. April 23, 2003. http://www.shakespeareinamerican communities.org <br />
I wanted to include this first official press bulletin announcing the launch of the tour, basically because it was the first public announcement. It declares that Laura Bush and Motion Picture Association of America President and CEO Jack Valenti would be honorary chairs and that the first year would involve six theater companies and a one hundred-community tour.</p>

<p>O’Connor, Justice Sandra Day. “Majority Opinion for National Endowment for the Arts <br />
v. Finley.” June 25, 1998. Obscenity and Pornography Decisions of the United <br />
States Supreme Court. Eds. Maureen Harrison and Steve Gilbert. Carlsbad, CA: Excellent Books, 2000.<br />
This case reviewed a Court of Appeals decision in favor of the NEA, which was fighting the 1990 congressional amendment to the NEA bill that forced the NEA to maintain ‘general standards of decency.’ Eight years after the amendment the Supreme Court ruled against the NEA because it did not violate the First or Fifth Amendment of the Constitution as the NEA charged. O’Connor writes very clearly and effectively contextualizes the case and helped me understand exactly how the controversial artists Robert Mapplethorpe and Andres Serrano were funded.</p>

<p>Office of the Clerk: United States House of Representatives. <br />
http://clerk.house.gove/histHigh/congressional_History/index.html (11/8/05)<br />
I needed to find out what the makeup of congress was during the formation of the NEA. I knew the Democrats controlled the legislative branch during much of the 60s, but wasn’t exactly sure what the numbers were. The 88th Congress (1963-1965) had 259 Democrats and 176 Republicans.  The 89th Congress (1965-1967) had 295 Democrats and 140 Republicans.  I still need to go back and check on the numbers for 1990 and 1996 important negative years for the NEA.</p>

<p>“Othello and the NEA, Navigating a New World.” The Washington Post. No author <br />
named. September 22, 2003. Database: Newspaper Source (11/4/05)<br />
This is a really interesting article covering the opening performance of Shakespeare in American Communities. The article tells the story of both New London, Connecticut and the NEA initiative.  It was also here that I discovered that even though Gioia constantly refers to the project as his ‘signature initiative’ it was actually the brainchild of his predecessor, Michael Hammond, who died after only eight days in office. I also learned that the group Arts in America reports that the impact of arts in the U.S. is estimated at $134 billion.</p>

<p>Palatella, John, and Kass, Leon R. “10 Years After, Poetry Still Matters.” Chronicle of <br />
Higher Education. September 27, 2002. Vol. 49, Issue 5. Database: Academic Search Premier. Viewed 11/26/05.<br />
While Oregon State’s Library carries the Atlantic Monthly from 1991 neither in print nor electronically, the article does a great job of reprising the debate that occurred after Gioia originally published the article.  Gioia made quite a name for himself. But they argue that his reasoning was overly general and that his argument doesn’t hold water today as poetry and creative writing are more popular than he gave credit to.</p>

<p>Peterson, Thane. “Beyond the 1990s’ ‘Culture Wars.’” Business Week Online. July 7, <br />
2004. Database: Academic Search Premier, viewed 11/4/05.<br />
This article is half editorial and half interview with Dana Gioia.  Peterson’s thesis is that while he would prefer the NEA to be more involved with controversial art it is impressive how Gioia has managed to secure more funding from lawmakers. A key point Gioia makes is that the Shakespeare project has presented plays to one million American students.</p>

<p>Raven, Arlene, ed. Art in the Public Interest. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan <br />
Research Press, 1989.<br />
According to Raven, the NEA has been instrumental in developing public art, but at the same time it has homogenized art to a certain extent by limiting the category of what it considers public art and what it chooses to fund.  But all has changed since her book was published in 1989 since in 1990 Congress forbid the NEA from issuing individual grants in the same way. </p>

<p>Reading at Risk: A Survey of Literacy Reading in America. Research Division Report <br />
#46. Produced by Tom Bradshaw and Bonnie Nichols. Washington: National <br />
Endowment for the Arts, June, 2004.<br />
I think quoting form the introduction is the most sobering way to explain what this source covers. This “is not a report that the National Endowment for the Arts is happy to issue. This comprehensive survey of American literary reading presents a detailed but bleak assessment of the decline of reading’s role in the nation’s culture. For the first time in modern history, less than half of the adult population now reads literature, and these trends reflect a larger decline in other sorts of reading. Anyone who loves literature or values the cultural, intellectual, and political importance of active and engaged literacy in American society will respond to this report with grave concern.” The U.S. Bureau of the Census conducted the survey, which had a sample size of more than 17,000 adults. According to this report the percentage of adults who read literature dropped from 54% in 1992 to 46% in 2002. This is a report is almost bigger than I know what to do with.</p>

<p>“Report: Phase One.” Shakespeare in American Communities.  Viewed through a link on <br />
the program’s homepage under the “overview” section.  11/5/05.<br />
Report details the highlights of the first phase of the program, September 2003-June 2004. It also lists the members of the advisory panel, known as the “Player’s Guild.”</p>

<p>“Report: Phase Two.” Shakespeare in American Communities: Shakespeare for a New <br />
Generation. Viewed through link on the program’s homepage. 11/21/05.<br />
Released in November 2005, the report details the highlights of the second phase of the program, June 2004-May 2005.  It is a much longer report than Phase One. At over 80 pages, it includes extensive feedback from participating theater companies.</p>

<p>Robinson, Walter. “Artists Denounce Changes in NEA.” Art in America. December 1990, <br />
p. 37.<br />
One of the few magazines I found that didn’t come off a database without page numbers.  Anyway, it’s a brief article, but came out right after the Mapplethorpe Amendment of 1990 was passed by Congress. It must have been difficult for artists to give up free money from the government, but by December 1990 almost thirty artists and institutions refused NEA funds.</p>

<p>Romano, Carlin. “Who Killed Literary Reading?” Chronicle of Higher Education. July <br />
23, 2004. Vol. 50, Issue 46. Database: Academic Search Premier. (12/1/05).<br />
Romano, critic at large for the Chronicle, and literary critic for the Philadelphia Inquirer, begins by claiming that it is obvious to anyone that reading is in decline and that it doesn’t a study to prove it. But she goes on to be highly critical of Gioia’s assessment that reading is in trouble. Her biggest claim is that private reading is in trouble, but that more people are doing more critical reading in the workplace.</p>

<p>Shakespeare in American Communities. Educational materials. Presented by the National <br />
Endowment for the Arts in partnership with The Sallie Mae Fund, 2004. Website: <br />
http://shakespeareinamericancommunities.org<br />
Educational outreach is an integral component of Shakespeare in American Communities. The Arts Endowment developed an educational resource packet that includes: Teacher’s Guide featuring key information for teachers and lesson plans; Recitation Contest Booklet containing preparation tools and suggested monologues for recitation; Teaching Shakespeare audio CD featuring monologues read by James Earl Jones, Mel Gibson, Jane Alexander, Michael York and others, with additional information about teaching Shakespeare; Shakespeare in Our Time video containing clips from movie versions of Shakespeare’s plays along with actors discussing the Bard, Why Shakespeare? DVD, an inspirational documentary starring Tom Hanks, Martin Sheen, Michael York, and others; Shakespeare Timeline Poster; Fun with Shakespeare pamphlets containing crossword puzzle, and trivia questions. 25,000 of the resource packets were produced.</p>

<p>Shakespeare in Performance. Site maintained by Rosalind Tedford. http://www.wfu.edu/ <br />
~tedforrl/shakespeare/#Shakespeare%20in (9/20/05)<br />
Tedford is a literacy librarian at Wake Forest University.  This site is full of links to information on Shakespeare.  I used it specifically for her list of all Shakespeare Festivals in the U.S., Canada and internationally.  Currently there are eighty six Shakespeare Fesitivals and Companies in the United States and four in Canada, six in the United Kingdom and one in Australia.</p>

<p><br />
Sofer, Dalia. “Dana Gioia’s NEA: Art for the Masses.” Poets & Writers. September, <br />
2003. http://www.pw.org/mag/0309/newssofar.htm (10/2/05)<br />
Sofer explains the historical tradition of American theater tours. Sofer also mentioned that in 1991 Gioia wrote an important article for the Atlantic Monthly in which he criticized contemporary poets and poetry for being overly intellectual.  Sofer also elicits a succinct response for Gioia on how Shakespeare connects to American literature.</p>

<p>United States Senate: History of Party Divisions. http://senate.gov/pagelayout/history/ <br />
one_item_and_teasers/partydiv.htm (11/8/05)<br />
I needed to find out what the makeup of congress was during the formation of the NEA. I knew the Democrats controlled the legislative branch during much of the 60s, but wasn’t exactly sure what the numbers were. The 88th Senate (1963-1965) had 66 Democrats and 34 Republicans.  The 89th Senate (1965-1967) had 68 Democrats and 32 Republicans.  I still need to go back and check on the numbers for 1990 and 1996 important negative years for the NEA.</p>

<p>Walt Disney On the Front Lines: The War Years. Walt Disney Treasures. Two-Disk <br />
DVD and liner notes. 2003.<br />
I just thought this would show how the government used the ‘arts’ if animated film can be considered art, in the effort during World War II. These are propaganda films (both cartoons like Donald Duck and government documentaries).</p>

<p>Winn, Steven. “Commentary: Bush Wants to Boost the NEA Budget, but it’s only an <br />
Artful Gesture.” San Francisco Chronicle. February 12, 2004. http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/cla/2004/02/12/DDG94TOKLI.DTL (11/6/05)<br />
Winn’s main claim is obvious in the title, claiming that Bush used a token raise in the NEA budget to court potential voters in an election year.  He quotes Roger Kimball the conservative National Review supporting the NEA and interviews Susan Medak of the Berkeley Repertory Theater to provide a counter argument.  If the National Review now loves the NEA there must be a problem for liberals this source demonstrates.</p>